1

-- 1 of 339 --

2
Foreword
The regulations that appear in this Student Handbook apply to all
undergraduate and graduate students who are enrolled in the different
colleges of the University. Upon admission, they agree to abide by these
regulations so as to maintain discipline, uphold the good order of the
academic community, preserve the fair name of the University, and
actualize its Vision-Mission Statement.
Aside from norms contained in this Student Handbook, website
postings, special manuals for specific purposes, and Help Desk
Announcements sent via email are the usual channels by which the
University administration informs the student body of official business.
The students should consult these channels regularly.
The administrative authority of the University is vested on the President
of the Institution. The continued attendance of students at De La Salle
University subjects them to this authority, conforming to the spirit of
the on-going policies set by the academic community.
A SEPARATE STUDENT HANDBOOK FOR THE STUDENTS UNDER THE TAÑADA-DIOKNO SCHOOL
OF LAW IS PROVIDED.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. PARTS OF THIS MATERIAL MAY BE REPRODUCED PROVIDED: (1) THE
MATERIAL IS NOT ALTERED; (2) USE IS NON COMMERCIAL; (3) DE LA SALLE UNIVERSITY IS
ACKNOWLEDGED AS SOURCE; AND (4) DE LA SALLE UNIVERSITY IS NOTIFIED THROUGH (EMAIL).
DLSU, 2401 TAFT AVENUE, MANILA 0922 PHILIPPINES.

-- 2 of 339 --

3
This is to acknowledge receipt of the
De La Salle University
(DLSU) Student Handbook
for Academic Year 2021-2025
_______________________
(Date)
Having read and understood the contents of this Student Handbook, I,
___________________________, commit to abide by the provisions stated
and to exemplify the Lasallian core values of Faith, Zeal for Service, and
Communion in Mission in order to realize the Expected Lasallian Graduate
Attributes (ELGAs) and become a resource for God and country. Furthermore,
I will abide by the different procedures and processes, including those
indicated in the Lasallian Community Standards section.
_______________________________________________________
(Signature over Printed Complete Name)
College: _____________________
Degree Program: ______________
ID Number: ___________________
Conforme:
_______________________________________________________
(Signature over Printed Complete Name)
Parents/Guardian
Note:
Please submit this Acknowledgement Form to the Student Discipline
Formation Office (SDFO) of DLSU-Taft Campus or the Laguna campus during
the enrollment period or during the Lasallian Personal Effectiveness Program
(LPEP).
Thank you.

-- 3 of 339 --

4

-- 4 of 339 --

5
De La Salle University
Student Handbook
2021-2025

-- 5 of 339 --

Table of Contents
Foreword
Acknowledgement Receipt
Table of Contents
Message from the President
Our Founder, St. John Baptist de La Salle
De La Salle Philippines
De La Salle University
Lasallian Values and Lasallian Prayers
General Provisions
Section 1: General Directives
Section 2: Student Classification
Section 3: Communication
Section 4: Social Norms
Section 5: Lasallian Community Standards
Section 6: Student Grievance
Undergraduate
Section 7: Fees, Scholarships, and Payments
Section 8: Attendance
Section 9: Examinations
Section 10: Credit, Grading, and Retention
Section 11: Trimestral Honors
Section 12: Graduation
Section 13: Discontinuance of Studies
Graduate
Section 14: Fees, Scholarships, and Payments
Section 15: Enrollment
Section 16: Comprehensive Examinations
Section 17: Credit, Grading, and Retention
Section 18: Thesis and Dissertation
II
III
VI
VIII
X
XII
XIV
XVI
18
27
35
36
40
76
89
96
100
101
107
109
111
113
118
121
121
128

-- 6 of 339 --

133
134
136
153
168
170
187
192
206
237
253
258
274
277
285
288
300
304
315
322
324
326
336
337
Section 19: Graduation
Section 20: Discontinuance of Studies
Section 21: Student Activities
Appendices
Appendix A: Lasallian Guiding Principles
Appendix B: South Manila Educational Consortium (SMEC)
Appendix C: Student Sevices and Programs
Appendix D: Expected Lasallian Graduate Attributes (ELGA)
Appendix E: Office Directory and Campus Layout
Appendix F: Undergraduate Student Organizations
Appendix G: Students’ Charter
Appendix H: DLSU Mental Health Policy
Appendix I: DLSU Safe Spaces and Policy Program
Appendix J: Zero-Tolerance for All Forms of Violence Policy
Appendix K: Digital Citizenship Policy
Appendix L: University Attire Policy
Appendix M: Policies on Intellectual Property
Appendix N: DLSU Policy and Guidelines on The Use of Trademarks
Appendix O: Guidelines for the Conduct of the Lasallians’ Fight Against Drugs (LFAD)
Drug Testing Program (DTP)
Appendix P: Implementing Guidlines for Discipline-Related Policies
Appendix Q: Theater Decorum
Appendix R: Memorandum on Dropping of Modular Accountancy Courses
Appendix S: Student Media
Appendix T: List of Relevant Republic Acts and Government Mandated Policies
Student Handbook Revision Committee

-- 7 of 339 --

8
Message from
the President
Welcome to De La Salle University!
Your college journey begins in an ever-evolving academic environment during a very complex
period. As the global community continues to shape new norms of living and learning, our
University also embarks on new strategies and innovative programs brought about by our
experiences of the pandemic years.
This year, we reintroduce face-to-face classes on what we call the HyFlex mode, gradually
expanding its implementation depending on the prevailing COVID-19 situation. We are delighted
to reopen our campuses in Manila and Laguna, as well as in Makati and the Bonifacio Global
City in Taguig, not only for our incoming froshies but also for those who
are already in their second or third year, who did not get the
opportunity for onsite gatherings during the past two years.
DLSU’s capability to manage the impacts of the
pandemic was the fruit of the technology-enabled
or blended learning that we have initiated more
than 10 years ago. It has allowed us to successfully
shift to online learning, and we continue to build on
it today as we provide the most viable and flexible
education to our students.
We look forward to the day that we will no
longer have major disruptions in our mode of
learning. Still, whatever the future may bring us,
our University underscores its commitment to
bring full service to you, our dear students. We
expect that you will engage in a high level
of collaboration with our faculty for our
service-learning and research activities.
You can also tap the full range of
DLSU’s support services to help
you every step of the way.

-- 8 of 339 --

9
Achievements in the face of challenges
I am happy to share with you that despite the pandemic, the University has remained the most
productive in research among Philippine private universities. Producing a large collection of
Scopus papers since 2008, we have managed to be the country’s leading higher education
institution in research from 2019 to 2022. For our achievements in research, our institution has
received the DOST Science for the People (SFTP) Award for Partner Academic Institutions.
The rankings use the same research-intensive indicators as THE’s World University Rankings,
but are calibrated to reflect the attributes of the region’s higher learning institutions. The
universities were assessed in five key areas of teaching (learning environment), research
(volume, income, and reputation), citations (research influence), international outlook (staff,
students, and research), and industry income (knowledge transfer).
For the fourth straight year, DLSU also remains among the world’s leading universities ranked by
THE for its success in delivering the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Such achievements are the result of the Lasallian community’s steadfast pursuit of the DLSU
vision-mission. I look forward to how this vision-mission, our commitment to quality education,
will manifest in your lives.
Students at the center of learning
At De La Salle University, students like you are at the center of the learning process. This allows
you to take advantage of all the opportunities for your holistic development. You may join any of
our various student organizations, whether in the field of sports, arts, community engagement,
spirituality, or leadership, among many others.
You have the support and mentorship of our faculty members, who are products of national
and international universities and considered among the most outstanding in their fields.
Our extensive network of industry and academic partners will help you explore the latest
innovations and developments in your respective fields.
Perhaps at some point, deep in your studies or non-academic pursuits, you may also find
yourself needing help. Always remember that there are various forms of support to help you in
your college journey. The University prioritizes the overall health and well-being of the members
of our community, so it will help to know that there is always a hand to hold you.
I hope you will also discover more about the life and legacy of our Founder, St. John Baptist de La
Salle, who showed us the values of faith in action, zeal for service, and communion in mission.
May his spirit inspire and guide you in your journey ahead, towards becoming the future leaders
and achievers for God and country.
May Jesus live in our hearts, Forever!
Animo La Salle!
Br. Bernard S. Oca
President
De La Salle University

-- 9 of 339 --

10
John Baptist de La Salle is credited as one of the founders of modern
classroom-style education. As a priest living in 17th-century France,
De La Salle was led by the spirit of God to become involved in the
education of youth. Education became his vocation.
During his lifetime, he founded a religious order of men, the Institute
of the Brothers of the Christian Schools, who devoted themselves
to teaching boys and young men. To assist the Brothers in this
ministry, he developed the first real strategy for teaching, created a
teacher’s manual, wrote student textbooks, and opened a school to
train teachers. He challenged the Brothers of his community to look
upon everything with the eyes of faith, to see the person of Christ
in their students, and to approach their ministry with great zeal for
the evangelization of youth. By the time of his death in 1719, he had
established numerous schools throughout France that followed his
ideals. This success was later copied in Europe and in America.
John Baptist de La Salle was an educational innovator. He looked at the
world and saw a need to educate all children, and responded to that
calling. In De La Salle’s day, education was reserved for the privileged;
generally only those boys and young men whose families could afford
private tutors studied at all. Relatively few of these men went on to
university. All subjects were taught in Latin, greatly limiting the spread
of education and texts. There were no programs to train teachers.
The tutors of the day were well-educated men who performed this
gentleman’s occupation to earn a living.
De La Salle realized that this approach closed education to all but the
very wealthy, perpetuating an entrenched upper class while cutting off
opportunities for bright but poor children. He believed that the working
class and poor had a right to quality education, so he directed his
efforts to these youth. What was truly revolutionary was De La Salle’s
understanding that a tutorial approach to instruction would never be
able to reach the masses—a new technique for instruction was needed.
Thus, he developed the simultaneous approach to instruction, using
monitors to educate small groups within a larger group. These groups
were the first “classrooms,” and this form of instruction remains the
principal form of instruction worldwide some 300 years later.
De La Salle also understood the critical need for teacher training to
ensure success in the classroom, as well as the benefit of teachers
continuing their training throughout their careers. Before placing
teachers in the classroom, De La Salle trained them and called the
teachers aside periodically to renew their instruction. He wrote a
training manual for his teachers, The Conduct of Christian Schools, that
included extraordinary insight to the task of the classroom instructor.
The book outlined rules and techniques for class teaching, including
regulations for maintaining discipline, steps for teaching, reading, and
even for student assessment and discipline.
Our Founder,
St. John Baptist de La Salle

-- 10 of 339 --

11
CONCERN FOR THE POOR AND VULNERABLE
John Baptist de La Salle had great love for the poor. He demonstrated this devotion by taking the
poor teachers into his home to feed them, by giving away his patrimony, and by requiring the
Brothers to teach the poor and working class. He held school on Sundays for those working-
class youth who had to labor during the week. De La Salle even opened a school for “incorrigible
delinquents.”
HIS LEGACY
De La Salle and his Brothers succeeded
in creating a network of quality schools
throughout France that featured instruction in
the vernacular, students grouped according to
ability and achievement, integration of religious
instruction with secular subjects,
well-prepared teachers with a sense of vocation
and mission, and the involvement of parents.
In 1900, John Baptist de La Salle was declared
a saint. In 1950, because of his life and
inspirational writings, he was made Patron
Saint of Catholic Teachers. His educational
legacy has since continued to La Salle
schools in over 80 countries. We see that
the principles that guided his life remain
relevant today. These same principles can
be the driving force for all of us involved
in the glorious ministry of Catholic
education.
St. John Baptist de La Salle,
Patron of Teachers, pray
for us.

-- 11 of 339 --

12
Preamble
De La Salle Philippines is a network of 16 Lasallian schools under the
Lasallian East Asia District. It was established to facilitate collaboration
in the Lasallian Mission and the promotion of the spirit of faith, zeal
for service, and communion in mission. These are at the heart of the
journey of our Founder, John Baptist de La Salle. Our schools pursue
programs that are geared towards providing quality, transformative
Christian education, especially for the most vulnerable children in
society.
De La Salle Philippines
About the DLSP Logo
The Star
The five-pointed star at the center of the DLSP logo is the Signum Fidei
Star. It is a sign of faith and the symbol officially used by the Institute of
Brothers of the Christian Schools (Fraternum Scholarum Christianarum
or FSC), also known as De La Salle Brothers.
It has as its origin the Star of Bethlehem, which led the Magi (Wise Men
of the East) to the birthplace of Christ. It represents the faith that has
led countless Brothers and members of the Lasallian Family in more
than 80 countries to pursue the Lasallian Mission.

-- 12 of 339 --

13
Broken Chevrons and Indivisa Manent
The house of De La Salle was first established in Urgel, an area of Catalonia, Spain, where the
form of the family name was “Salla.” The head of the family, Johan Salla, Warrior in Chief of
Atphonus the Chaste, King of Oviedo, expelled the Moors from Urgel and reestablished the
Episcopal See in 818. The broken legs he sustained during combat as he fought side by side with
his king are the origin of the broken chevrons on De La Salle’s coat of arms.*
In the 13th century, the La Salle family migrated to the Basque province in the south of France,
and though their name became French, they retained “Salla!” as their battle cry. The ancient
motto of the family is “Que sien toustem ligato amasse,” which in Gascon dialect means “Let
us all be united!” or “Let us all stick together!” The Reims branch of the family translated this
motto into the Latin “Indivisa Manent,” which is the present wording of the motto on the coat
of arms, literally translated as “Permanently Indivisible.” The Latin phrase is translated into
the present tag line “One La Salle.” The broken chevrons and the motto speak of the courage
and commitment that the family of De La Salle wishes to convey in every generation and
the importance of remaining undivided at different levels: the personal level, the family/
organizational level, and the network of Lasallian schools in the Philippines and the world.
Lasallian Schools in the Philippines
De La Salle University (1911)
Malate, Manila and Biñan, Laguna
La Salle University-Ozamiz (1929)
Ozamiz City, Misamis Occidental
De La Salle Araneta University (1946)
Malabon City, Metro Manila
University of St. La Salle (1952)
Bacolod City, Negros Occidental
La Salle Academy (1958)
Iligan City, Lanao del Norte
La Salle Green Hills (1959)
Mandaluyong City, Metro Manila
St. Joseph School-La Salle (1960)
Bacolod City, Negros Occidental
De La Salle Lipa (1962)
Lipa City, Batangas
De La Salle John Bosco College (1963)
Bislig City, Surigao Del Sur
De La Salle Andres Soriano Memorial
College (1965)
Toledo City, Cebu
De La Salle-Santiago Zobel School (1978)
Muntinlupa City, Metro Manila
La Salle College Antipolo (1985)
Antipolo City, Rizal
De La Salle University- Dasmariñas (1987)
Dasmariñas, Cavite
De La Salle Medical Health Sciences
Institute (1987)
Dasmariñas, Cavite
De La Salle - College of Saint Benilde (1988)
Malate, Manila
St. Jaime Hilario School - De La Salle Bataan
(2006)
Bagac, Bataan

-- 13 of 339 --

14
Preamble
De La Salle University is an internationally recognized Catholic
university in the Philippines established by the Brothers of the Christian
Schools in 1911. Inspired by the charism of St. John Baptist de La Salle,
the University community, together and by association, provides quality
human and Christian education by teaching minds, touching hearts,
and transforming lives.
Vision-Mission
A leading learner-centered and research University bridging faith and
scholarship, attuned to a sustainable Earth, and in the service of Church
and society, especially the poor and marginalized
De La Salle University

-- 14 of 339 --

15
Core Values
Faith
DLSU is committed to nurturing a community of distinguished
and morally upright scholars that harmonizes faith and life with
contemporary knowledge in order to generate and propagate new
knowledge for human development and social transformation.
Service
DLSU is committed to being a resource for Church and nation and
to being socially responsible in building a just, peaceful, stable, and
progressive Filipino nation.
Communion
DLSU is committed to building a community of leaders, competent
professionals, scholars, researchers, and entrepreneurs, who will
participate actively in improving the quality of life in Philippine society
within the perspective of Christian ideals and values.

-- 15 of 339 --

16
Lasallian Values
and Lasallian Prayers
Spirit of Faith
“Let us remember that we are in the most holy presence of God.”
Remembering God’s presence is how we tune in to God. It is how we discover His
will for us in the present moment.
Zeal for Service
“I will continue, O my God, to do all my actions for the love of You.”
Everything I do becomes a gift to God if it springs from a desire to love Him. God,
in turn, takes my gifts and uses them to bring blessings to the lives of others.

-- 16 of 339 --

17
Communion in Mission
“Live Jesus in our hearts, forever!”
If we allow Jesus to live in our hearts, we will realize we can be Jesus for
one another.

-- 17 of 339 --

18
1 	General Provisions
SECTION 1: GENERAL DIRECTIVES
1.1 	All students1 are required to comply with the provisions of the
Student Handbook. They should be familiar with its contents.
Ignorance of any provision in the Student Handbook does not
excuse any student from being sanctioned for non-compliance.
Subject to the duties and responsibilities corresponding to
each right as well as the limitations provided for on the Student
Handbook, and provided that the exercise of a right does not
infringe the right of others, De La Salle University (DLSU or
University) recognizes the rights of students under the DLSU
Students’ Charter2, more specifically the following:
1.1.1 	The right to express concern on matters related to the
quality of education they deserve;
1.1.2 	The right to be represented in policy-making bodies
in the University or in committees handling issues
that concern students. Students are represented to
the following councils and committees internal to the
University.
1.1.2.1 	Ad-Hoc Grievance Board
1.1.2.2 	Aspiring Organizations Accreditation
Committee
1.1.2.3 	Canteen Inspection Committee
1.1.2.4 	Committee on National Issues and Concerns
1.1.2.5 	College Council
1.1.2.6 	Council on Inclusion, Diversity, and Well-
Being
1 	Students refer to all those enrolled in all DLSU courses and programs whether
undergraduate, graduate, and School of Law.
2 	Refer to Appendix G for the DLSU Students’ Charter

-- 18 of 339 --

19
1.1.2.7 	Disaster Risk Reduction and Management
Committee
1.1.2.8 	Drug Testing Selection Board
1.1.2.9 	Enrollment Council
1.1.2.10 	Housing Committee
1.1.2.11 	Multi-Sectoral Consultative Committee on
Tuition and Fees
1.1.2.12 	Student Discipline Formation Board
1.1.2.13 	Student Fees Revision Committee
1.1.2.14 	Student Handbook Revision Committee
1.1.2.15 	Task Force Safe School Committee
1.1.2.16 	University Honors and Awards Council
1.1.2.17 	University Library Council
1.1.2.18 	University Panel for Case Conference
1.1.2.19 	University Vision-Mission Week Executive
Committee
1.1.3 	The right to organize among themselves;
1.1.3.1 	The right to freely associate themselves
with organizations, alliances, and
federations, given that this right is practiced
with due diligence and utmost responsibility
in partaking in activities, provided that these
do not contradict the University’s vision and
mission, the responsibilities of students
stated in the Students’ Charter (Appendix G,
Chapter 3), the University’s Zero-Tolerance
for All Forms of Violence Policy (Appendix
J), the Anti-Hazing Act of 2018 (RA 11053,
see Appendix V), other relevant University
policies, and the state’s governing laws.
1.1.4 	The right to express one’s self provided it is exercised in
accordance with the University’s social norms; and

-- 19 of 339 --

20
1.1.5 	The right to due process of law; and
1.1.6 	The right of students to be free from discrimination
on the basis of sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
gender expression, race, color, religion, age, physical
disability, and mental illness.
1.2 	All students should respect Catholic and other religious
practices and beliefs in campus, such as praying before and
after class. The Angelus, a Catholic devotion recited daily at
12 noon and 6:00 p.m., should also be properly observed by
Catholics and respected by non-Catholics. Everyone should
cease the performance of activities for a moment of silent
reflection during the recitation of the Angelus.
1.3 	All students should always give reverence and respect to
the Philippine National Flag by participating in the singing of
the Philippine National Anthem, as stipulated in Republic Act
No. 8491, otherwise known as Flag and Heraldic Code of the
Philippines.
1.4 	The University recognizes the hazards of smoking to health
and declares the University premises, as defined in Sec. 5.5.2
(University Jurisdiction), a non-smoking area.
1.5 	Students should be polite and courteous towards all persons at
all times.
1.6 	Upon enrollment, students are issued original identification
cards (ID) with computer-registered student numbers. Students
are required to scan their ID upon entry and visibly wear it while
inside the campus or any of its satellite premises where the
university has jurisdiction. The ID is valid as long as the student
is enrolled at the University. The student must present the ID
when asked by the University personnel and authorities, but it
cannot be confiscated. Students who lose or misplace their ID
may secure a campus pass following the process stated in the
implementing guidelines on ID policy.3
1.7 	Students are liable for false information on their ID, registration
forms, and other school documents. Students who have
transferred residence or have changed their civil status should
3 	Please refer to Appendix P for the guidelines on the implementation of the ID
Policy.

-- 20 of 339 --

21
inform the Office of the University Registrar through the
Request for Change of Information Form (OUR Form no. RE-
10-201508) downloadable from the DLSU website (www.dlsu.
edu.ph). Any written communication sent to the last recorded
address of students should be considered delivered even if
returned.
1.8 	Students are responsible for the submission and completion of
required documents and forms by the concerned offices. Non-
compliance or non-submission of documents and forms would
constrain the offices to regulate the students’ IDs or place their
clearance or enrollment status on hold. Similarly, International
Students are mandated by Philippine Immigration Laws to
comply with required visa for study.
1.9 	The University regards its students as responsible individuals
from the time they are admitted. Consequently, it is the
responsibility of students to keep their parents or guardians
informed or updated on their academic standing, the status
of their attendance and the status of their discipline record,
including the consequences of their failures, absences, and
discipline infractions.
1.10 	Classes are automatically suspended, without need for any
announcement from the University, under the following
conditions:
1.10.1 	All levels (Pre-School to Doctoral)
1.10.1.1 	During regular holidays or when declared
as a special non-working holiday by the
Office of the President of the Philippines
or, in the case of local holidays, by the
local government of the Province/ City/
Municipality having political jurisdiction over
the campus.
1.10.1.2 	When specifically declared as “all levels” and
for private schools by national government
agencies, such as the Office of the President
or the National Disaster Risk Reduction and
Management Council (NDRRMC); or
1.10.1.3 	When specifically declared as “all levels” and
for private schools by the local government
for classes held in campuses covered by its
jurisdiction; or

-- 21 of 339 --

22
1.10.1.4 	When Typhoon Signal No. 3 or above is
raised.
1.10.2 	College, master’s, and doctoral levels
1.10.2.1 	When declared by the Commission on
Higher Education (CHED) for private schools.
1.11 	The University President makes the decision for the suspension
of classes under the following conditions:
1.11.1 	In cases when the decision on the suspension of
classes, for whatever reason, is left by the government
to the discretion of the school;
1.11.2 	In all other cases when the school, on its own, intends
to suspend classes.
1.11.3 	In cases when an announcement of suspension of
classes by the government is made, when classes for
the day have already begun, the University President
shall, only for purposes of standardizing the cut-off
time for the suspension of classes, determine the time
of the suspension.
1.12 	When left to the University, the decision to suspend classes
takes into account many factors, such as safety of the
members of the Lasallian community, academic calendar,
government regulations on class contact hours, and many
others. The University shall exert all efforts to decide on
suspension of classes at the earliest practicable time.
1.12.1 	As a general rule, unless there is an announcement to
the contrary, classes will proceed as usual.
1.13 	The decision of the University President will be communicated
to the Office of the Provost for dissemination. The official
announcement of the suspension of classes will be made
through the following official social media accounts:
• 	De La Salle University
http://www.facebook.com/DLSU.Manila.100
http://twitter.com/DLSUManila
• 	De La Salle University - Laguna Campus
http://www.facebook.com/
DLSUScienceTechnologyComplex

-- 22 of 339 --

23
1.14 	The DLSU campuses open and close on the following times,
unless otherwise announced:
Manila Campus 	6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
Monday to Saturday
Laguna Campus 	6:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
Monday to Saturday
Rufino Taguig (BGC)
Campus
6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
Monday to Saturday
Only those with a Special Permit for Campus Access (SPCA) will be
allowed to enter earlier than and stay beyond these hours.
1.15 	Campus access status, to be declared by the University
President or the Vice President for Administration, may be
classified as follows:
1.15.1 	Open
1.15.1.1 	When this campus access status is in effect,
the campus maintains normal operating
hours — 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.— and
activities.
1.15.2 	Restricted
1.15.2.1 	When this campus access status is in effect,
all scheduled activities for the day within
the campus are cancelled and the entry
to and the stay on campus is limited to
those covered by a valid Special Permit for
Campus Access approved and issued AFTER
the declaration of the campus access
status. Those approved and issued BEFORE
the declaration of the campus access status
are deemed cancelled.
1.15.2.2 	Campus access may be given to individuals
if the transit, stay, and the planned activities
do not pose any threat to the safety of
the participants, including those who will
provide support services.
1.15.2.3 	The campus is on restricted campus access
status automatically from 10:00 p.m. to
6:00 a.m. the following day, Mondays to
Saturdays, and on Sundays and holidays.

-- 23 of 339 --

24
1.15.2.4 	When office work is suspended before
classes for the day being, personnel will still
be allowed to enter the campus until 9:30
a.m. to allow them to secure important
materials from their offices. However, all
personnel must exit by 10:00 a.m. Entry
and exit during this period will be logged
and strictly monitored. Only personnel
authorized to stay inside the campus will be
allowed to do so.
1.15.3 	Shelter-in-Place
1.15.3.1 	This campus access status may be declared
only when classes have begun for the day.
1.15.3.2 	During suspension of classes and office
work, everyone is expected to exit the
campus within one (1) hour after the
suspension. However, when this campus
access status is in effect, those waiting
to be fetched or for weather conditions to
improve may stay in areas designated by
authorities. The following specific areas are
automatically designated as such:
Manila Campus
• 	The covered walk from Gate 2 (North Gate) to
Gate 3 (Velasco)
• 	The waiting areas of Gate 1 (South Gate)
• 	The front entrances of the Br. Andrew
Gonzalez Hall
• 	The front entrances of the Gokongwei Hall
Laguna Campus
• 	The East Canopy and East entrance of the
Milagros Del Rosario Building
• 	The front entrances of LC 1 and LC 2 buildings

-- 24 of 339 --

25
Rufino Campus
• 	The front entrance of the DLSU Rufino Building
1.15.3.3 	During situations when students and
personnel are stranded on campus, the
University shall designate controlled
holding areas for overnight stay and provide
necessities.
1.15.3.4 	While the status is in effect, loitering inside
the campus and/or staying inside the office
or work area are strictly prohibited.
1.15.4 	Closed (Extremely Restricted)
When this campus access status is in effect, the
campus shall strictly be off-limits to all members
of the Lasallian community. The declaration of this
status means that transit, stay, and activities inside
the campus present clear threats to safety of the
community. Special Permits for Campus Access
approved and issued prior to this status taking effect
are deemed revoked. Access is given exclusively to
individuals who are required to perform tasks critical to
the operations or resumption of the operations.
1.15.5 	The restrictions on campus access do not apply to the
following:
1.15.5.1 	University President
1.15.5.2 	Provost and the Associate Provost
1.15.5.3 	Senior Vice President and Vice Presidents
1.15.5.4 	Executive Directors
1.15.5.5 	University Fellows
1.15.5.6 	Deans and Associate Deans
1.15.5.7 	Principal and Associate Principals
1.15.5.8 	Executive Director, Community, Culture, and
Human Resources Services Office
1.15.5.9 	Director, University Safety Office
1.15.5.10 	Director, Security Office

-- 25 of 339 --

26
1.15.5.11 	De La Salle Brothers, their special guest(s),
and others who reside at the Brothers
Community
1.15.5.12 	Technical workers from utility companies
1.15.5.13 	Contracted workers scheduled to work on
campus
1.15.6 	The Special Permit for Campus Access (SPCA)
is granted by the Office of the Vice President for
Administration, through the Security Office or, in the
case of the Laguna Campus, through the Office of
the Vice President for Laguna. The SPCA guidelines on
processing including the form is available online.
1.16 	The provisions on suspension and campus access are detailed
in the University Guidelines on Suspension of Classes and
Office Work and Restriction in Campus Access. Any change in
the approved guidelines will be posted via official channels of
communication.
1.17 	The University acknowledges the right of the students to equal
access to available campus space. Benches and tables in
campus meant for students shall be accessible to all who wish
to use them on a principle of right by physical presence. It is
understood that students will occupy only the space they need.
1.18 	The University values the health and well-being of the members
of the academic community.
1.18.1 	Undergraduate and graduate students are required to
undergo the scheduled entrance and annual health
examination conducted by the Health Services Office
(HSO).
1.18.2 	All students who are diagnosed to have communicable
diseases and/or those who are unable to report to
class because of a prolonged illness are required to
seek clearance from the HSO before returning to the
University.
1.18.3 	All students are required to undergo drug testing as
part of the health and wellness of Lasallian students.
The guidelines pertaining to the implementation of the
drug testing are in accordance with the government
mandated laws.4

-- 26 of 339 --

27
mandated laws.4
1.18.4 	The University does not sanction student membership
in non-DLSU accredited organizations.
1.19 	The University does not allow student membership in non-DLSU
accredited organizations within DLSU.
SECTION 2: STUDENT CLASSIFICATION
2.1 	Undergraduate students enrolled in the University are classified
by year level in the curriculum and according to degree program
as follows:
Year Level 	Designation
Frosh 	1 or Fr
Sophomore 	2 or So
Junior 	3 or Jr
Senior 	4 or Sr
Terminal 	5 or Tr
2.2 	Graduate students admitted to the University are classified as
follows:
2.2.1 	Regular:
When the student has met all the admission
requirements of the program;
2.2.2 	Probationary:
When the student needs to fulfill certain requirements
or pre-requisites of the program.
2.2.3 	Conditional:
When the student lacks certain documents, as
indicated on the Notice of Graduate Studies Admission.
Non-fulfillment of the conditions within thirty (30)
4 	See Appendix Y for the Guidelines in the implementation of LFAD Drug Testing
Program, including relevant government laws on drug testing (DDB Board
Regulation No. 3 Series of 2009 and CHED Memorandum Order (CMO) No. 64,
Series of 2017).

-- 27 of 339 --

28
working days from admission shall result in the
automatic cancellation of enrollment without any
refund.
2.3 	Colleges/Schools and Departments
Br. Andrew Gonzalez FSC College of Education
The Br. Andrew Gonzalez FSC College of Education (BAGCED)
envisions itself as a center of excellence in the development of
educational leaders, researchers, counselors, and professionals
in the Asia-Pacific region. BAGCED implements training
and development programs responsive to educational and
professional needs, and contributes research for policy
formulation, knowledge expansion, and attitude and value
formation.
• 	Counseling and Educational Psychology
• 	Educational Leadership and Management
• 	English and Applied Linguistics
• 	Physical Education
• 	Science Education
College of Computer Studies (CCS)
The College of Computer Studies (CCS) is committed to
its three-pronged vision of continually sharing knowledge
and expertise through teaching, engaging in Computing
research and product development, and rendering services to
communities in need. CCS upholds the tradition of excellence
through its programs that emphasize the application of theories
and the development of human-centric projects. Students
are trained to be experts in their chosen field and become
tomorrow’s leaders in industry, academe, and government.
• 	Computer Technology
• 	Information Technology
• 	Software Technology
College of Liberal Arts (CLA)
The College of Liberal Arts aims to be a leading center of higher
learning in the arts, humanities, and social sciences in the

-- 28 of 339 --

29
Asia-Pacific. It provides a holistic Lasallian education to learners
by nurturing their creativity, critical thinking, interpersonal
and lifelong learning skills. The faculty and students are
committed to produce excellent research and creative works
in their respective academic fields and to pursue at the same
time meaningful collaborative projects that are responsive
to the needs of society in a fast-changing world. Through the
years, CLA has been home to distinguished social scientists,
great writers and artists, renowned filmmakers, world-class
performers, public intellectuals and exemplary student leaders.
• 	Communication
• 	Filipino
• 	History
• 	International Studies
• 	Literature
• 	Philosophy
• 	Political Science and Development Studies
• 	Psychology
• 	Sociology and Behavioral Science
• 	Theology and Religious Education
College of Science (COS)
The thrust of the College of Science is to nurture and sustain
an academic community that is intellectually, socially, and
spiritually responsive to the needs of our nation and its people,
using the vision and capabilities of science. Through the
College’s various programs and services, we strive to imbue
ourselves with the values manifested in the different scientific
disciplines. The College of Science adheres to the principle
of providing curricular offerings of the highest quality, with a
particular emphasis on research and development.
• 	Biology
• 	Chemistry
• 	Mathematics and Statistics
• 	Physics

-- 29 of 339 --

30
Gokongwei College of Engineering (GCOE)
The Gokongwei College of Engineering (GCOE) is a model
institution of research, as it supports research projects that
respond to the needs of both industrialized and the rural
regions in the country. It has earned recognition from reputable
organizations for research conducted by faculty and students
which have significantly contributed to national development.
The Gokongwei College of Engineering is known for its relevant
and progressive curriculum; a faculty roster of top caliber
academics and industry practitioners; and modern laboratories
and state-of-the-art equipment in the formation of highly
competent, morally-grounded, and service-oriented engineering
professionals.
• 	Chemical Engineering
• 	Civil Engineering
• 	Electronics and Communications Engineering
• 	Industrial Engineering
• 	Manufacturing Engineering and Management
• 	Mechanical Engineering
Ramon V. Del Rosario College of Business (RVRCOB)
The Ramon V. del Rosario College of Business (RVR COB)
is committed to the continuous pursuit of excellence in
business education responsive to the needs for humanistic
and ethical management skills needed to balance economic
and sustainability goals of future leaders, managers and
entrepreneurs.
• 	Accountancy
• 	Commercial Law
• 	Decision Sciences & Innovation
• 	Financial Management
• 	Marketing and Advertising
• 	Management and Organization

-- 30 of 339 --

31
School of Innovation and Sustainability (SIS)
The School of Innovation and Sustainability is a college at the
Laguna campus dedicated to cultivating a dynamic learning
environment that integrates interdisciplinary practices across
various disciplines. The school aims to empower students
with the knowledge, skills, and mindset needed to address
contemporary challenges and contribute to a more sustainable
and innovative future. Faculty members are experts in their
respective fields, fostering a collaborative and forward-thinking
academic community.
The School of Innovation and Sustainability engages in research
initiatives, industry partnerships, and community outreach to
promote real-world applications of innovative and sustainable
solutions. By providing a holistic education that blends
creativity, critical thinking, and a commitment to environmental
and social responsibility, the school aims to produce Lasallian
graduates who are well-prepared to contribute positively to the
global challenges of the 21st century.
School of Economics (SOE)
The DLSU School of Economics (SOE) represents more than
50 years of leadership in economics education, research,
and public service. It has stood for innovative and committed
teaching, rigorous research, and steadfast engagement with
the public and private sector. It pioneered many practices now
considered standard within the profession: the emphasis on
mathematical and econometric training for undergraduates,
early exposure to evidence-based research and the publication
of new knowledge, the development of a scientific discourse
in Filipino, problem-based learning, service learning, and
investment in new economic methodologies. Every year, its
majors reap a disproportionate number of academic and non-
academic awards from university and national-award giving
bodies, a final statement to the culture of excellence and
Lasallian mentoring that animates DLSU Economics.
• 	Economics
School of Lifelong Learning (SoLL)
The School of Lifelong Learning (SoLL) is the continuing
education provider and consulting arm of De La Salle University.
SoLL offers specialized certificate courses in partnership with
industry associations, customized short-term programs for

-- 31 of 339 --

32
client institutions, public seminars, and consultancy services.
It also acts as the institutional and development unit of DLSU.
SoLL harnesses the expertise of the faculty of the entire
University, which is composed not only of academicians but
also of various professionals with experience in different
industries and organizations in both the public and private
sectors.
Tañada-Diokno School of Law (TDSOL)
The De La Salle University Tañada-Diokno School of Law is
envisioned as a leading legal education institution that molds
future leaders in the legal profession. Established to serve as
the University’s gift to the nation in celebration of its centenary,
the School gives special focus on human rights in its program
and reflects the vision and advocacy of Filipino nationalists,
patriots and Lasallian lawyers, Lorenzo Tañada and Jose
Diokno. The School imparts knowledge and provides support
to prepare students to pass the bar examination, hones their
skills to prepare them for law practice, and gives students an
opportunity to participate in formation activities.
2.4 	Administrators in the Colleges, Schools, and Departments5
2.4.1 	Dean
As the Chief Executive Officer of the college/school,
the Academic Dean provides overall leadership and
general supervision.
2.4.2 	Associate Dean
The Associate Dean handles all student-related matters
(students’ concerns, academic advising, students’
programs, students’ professional organizations,
student complaints and grievances, etc.) in the college
or school and performs other administrative functions
that are assigned by the Dean.
2.4.3 	Assistant Deans
2.4.3.1 	External Affairs and Lasallian Mission
5 	As provided in the Administration Manual of 2016

-- 32 of 339 --

33
The Assistant Dean for External Affairs
and Lasallian Mission assists the Dean in
fostering mutually beneficial relationships
between the college or school and its
external stakeholders. The Assistant Dean
helps ensure the successful and effective
implementation of college/school programs
for visiting scholars, service and experiential
learning, community engagement, and
quality assurance and accreditation.
2.4.3.2 	Research and Advanced Studies
The Assistant Dean for Research and
Advanced Studies in each college or school
is focused on promoting and monitoring
the synergy between research, conducted
in the academic departments and the
affiliated centers, laboratories and institutes,
and academic activities both at the
undergraduate and graduate levels.
2.4.4 	Department Chair
The Chair works in close collaboration with the Dean
in matters pertaining to the strategic direction,
management, and coordination of the academic
programs, research, and community engagement
activities in line with the College and department’s
vision-mission.
2.4.5 	Department Vice-Chair
The Vice Chair assists the Department Chair in matters
pertaining to course loading and offerings as well as
student concerns, welfare, and activities under the
department.
2.4.6 	Graduate Program Coordinator
2.5 	Undergraduate Students who would like to shift to another
program within the same or a different college may apply for
shifting only after two (2) completed terms in the current
program. Graduate Students who would like to shift to another
program within the same or a different college may apply
for shifting only after one (1) completed term in the current
program.

-- 33 of 339 --

34
The schedule and procedures for shifting are available through
the announcements and postings of the Office of the University
Registrar.
For students taking a double degree program, dropping one
degree with the intent of pursuing a single degree program shall
be regarded as shifting and should follow the schedule and
procedures for shifting.
2.5.1 	Shifting can be done only up to two times for both
undergraduate and graduate students.
2.5.2 	When a student shifts to another program, failures
in courses that are not part of the curriculum of the
new program shall not be included in the computation
of accumulated units of failures. These failures shall,
however, still be reflected in the transcript of records,
and included in the computation of the CGPA.

-- 34 of 339 --

35
SECTION 3: COMMUNICATION
3.1 	All official business with any office, unit or department of the
University, or with any administrative personnel, should be
transacted in writing following the standard letter format. The
student should provide two (2) copies: one copy for the office
concerned and the other one noted by the recipient for the
student as a receiving copy. Oral arrangements or agreements
should be supported afterwards by a written document. Emails
are considered official communication.
3.2 	All letters, requests and the like should be deposited to the
Mailing Unit for routing or sent directly to the person addressed.
The Mailing Unit is found at the South Wing of St. La Salle Hall.
Communications from students should be preferably encoded.
3.3 	All communications should be signed and should indicate the
student’s name and ID number. For email communications,
students are strongly encouraged to use their official DLSU
account.
3.4 	Under special circumstances, academic-related and discipline-
related information regarding students enrolled at the University
may only be obtained from the Office of the University Registrar
(OUR) and the Student Discipline Formation Office (SDFO),
respectively.
3.5 	Any person who transacts business with the OUR, the Finance
and Accounting Office (FAO), SDFO, and the Dean’s Office,
for and on behalf of a student, should present a letter of
authorization. The office concerned may require notarization of
such documents.
3.6 	Given the hybrid setting, students may communicate with the
University’s administrative offices through the trunkline (632)
8524-4611 and (632) 8465-8900 or through their email and
mobile numbers found in Appendix E.

-- 35 of 339 --

36
SECTION 4: SOCIAL NORMS
All members of the University community are expected to observe
politeness, etiquette, and courtesy in dealing with the other members
and guests on campus at all times. They are expected to show respect
to all persons and for differences in abilities, religion, race, sexual
orientation and gender identity, and political beliefs.
Upon admission to the University, a student is regarded as a mature
individual with all the rights and responsibilities of a citizen to foster
an environment that is conducive for academic, social, and moral
development. All these contribute to the goal of achieving a Lasallian
education and upholding Lasallian values for the common good within
and outside the University. With this, certain forms of conduct and
demeanor should be observed as follows:
4.1 	The University acknowledges that everyone has the right to
dress comfortably, to be responsible for their own behavior, and
to be able to effectively focus on the learning process amidst
possible distractions. The minimum required University attire is
aimed at keeping the learning space safe during specific class
activities, allowing students to be comfortable and to express
their gender identity, religious affiliation, and advocacy, without
fear of discipline or discrimination. All students must observe
the University Attire Policy presented in Appendix K.
4.2 	Students should follow the standard classroom policies and
procedures.
4.2.1 	Prescribed attire may be required by faculty members
in their classes or during specific activities or events.
4.2.2 	Appropriate and proper use of electronic devices as
defined by faculty to support instruction (e.g., cellular
phones and other communication devices, laptops,
etc.) should be observed to promote a classroom
environment that is conducive for learning.
4.2.3 	Use of instructional equipment and materials in
classrooms for academic and related purposes
should follow the guidelines on venue and equipment
reservation.9
4.2.4 	Proper care and responsible use of all classroom
equipment, furniture, and other gadgets of the
University should be exercised at all times.
9 https://www.dlsu.edu.ph/offices/registrar/policies/online-classroom-reservation-system/

-- 36 of 339 --

37
4.3 	Faculty members are also allowed to set additional policies and
procedures provided that these are reasonable, do not infringe
on any other existing University rules and policies, and are
mutually agreed upon by the faculty and students. Any student
who violates these policies and procedures may be asked to
report immediately to the SDFO for investigation. The student
must obtain a Re-admission Slip, without which the respondent
may neither be re-admitted to class, allowed to take the
examination, nor enroll. The student shall be marked “absent”
for every session missed from the date they are sent out until
the time of readmission. The SDFO shall inform the complainant
of actions taken on the case.
4.4 	Students should observe proper decorum and attire during
academic and non-academic events held online, on campus
and off-campus. Specific guidelines on proper decorum in
auditoriums should also be followed7.
4.5 	Noisy, disrespectful, or disruptive behaviors that are deliberate
and distract ongoing classes and activities will not be permitted.
In addition, everyone is expected to remain where they are
during the recitation of the Angelus, regardless of their religious
affiliation.
4.6 	Students are encouraged to observe elevator courtesy.
4.7 	Specific rules and markings are posted in classrooms, university
libraries, canteens, restrooms, and in other facilities under
the University’s jurisdiction and should be strictly observed.
Further, the areas identified as restricted and are identified for
specific groups (such as restrooms and faculty areas) must be
respected and followed.
4.8 	The University encourages healthy interaction among
students. Students are enjoined to be mindful of others in
their surroundings when on campus. They are encouraged to
practice utmost self-discipline in order to keep their focus on
their learning. Acts or gestures that tend to cause distraction
from learning in the classroom or anywhere on campus will be
referred to the SDFO for dialogue and formation. Students are
reminded to refrain from acts of lewdness that are prohibited
in Section 5.3.1.11. In line with this, they should comply with
the implementing guidelines set by the University Student
Government (USG), Graduate Student Council (GSC), and the
SDFO.
7 	See Appendix P: Implementing Guidelines for Discipline-Related Policies.

-- 37 of 339 --

38
4.9 	The University encourages students to use campus facilities
for social, cultural, and recreational activities; and business
meetings. However, the University reserves the right to deny
the use of such facilities to those who do not abide by the
University regulations.
4.10 	Students who invite guests from outside the campus (e.g.,
lecturers, speakers, and seminar participants) are requested to
submit a Special Permit for Campus Access (SPCA) from the
Security Office, indicating the names of the campus visitors, the
purpose of their visit, and the expected time of their arrival.
4.11 	The University recognizes the importance of support for
students’ wellness. Any student deemed to be dealing
with mental health issues may be assisted by the Office of
Counseling and Career Services (OCCS).
The Associate Dean of the student concerned shall convene
a committee, whose members include the Director of OCCS,
the Director of the Health Services Office (HSO), and the
Director of the Lasallian Center for Inclusion, Diversity, and
Well-being (LCIDWell). The Committee should consult a
mental health professional (either a psychiatrist or a licensed
clinical psychologist) to assess the student and make
recommendations on how to help the student and facilitate
clinically appropriate transitions or sharing of care. The mental
health professional will advise whether it is safe and beneficial
for the student to continue studying. The Committee will ensure
that the recommended intervention is applied.
A leave of absence due to mental health reasons may be
extended depending on the recommendation of the mental
health professional. (See Section 13.6)
4.12 	Participation of students in any external academic or
non-academic activity (e.g., contest, play, band, orchestra,
choir, conference, association, society, or group) as official
representatives of the University or any of its recognized
student organizations or groups, should be approved by the
College Associate Dean (for academic activities) or the Dean
of Student Affairs (for non-academic activities). An office may
endorse approval of other external participation of students.
4.13 	Students may release notices of University or student activities
to the press, or similar channels of public communication,
only after securing clearance from the Office for Strategic

-- 38 of 339 --

39
Communications (STRATCOM) through the Dean of Student
Affairs (DSA).
4.14 	Activities that inflict physical or psychological harm or demean
the dignity of an individual (e.g., hazing, initiation, etc.) are not
allowed. The University is, however, not responsible for the
actions of students who on their own, without regard of the
existing law, and despite awareness of possible grave punitive
sanctions, will engage in such activities, either actively or
passively.
4.15 	Policy Statement on Academic Honesty
As a Catholic University that prepares its students to become
professionals and be the resource for Church and nation, De La
Salle University puts premium on academic honesty. Students’
academic requirements, such as assignments, term papers,
computer programs, projects, and thesis papers, should be their
own work. They must distinguish between their own ideas and
those of other authors. Students must cite references, direct
quotes, and other sources (including data obtained from tables,
illustrations, figures, pictures, images, and video) following the
prescribed format of the discipline.
If students plan to submit a similar previous work for credit in
different courses, written permission must first be obtained
from the faculty members concerned. In addition, for works
where they are only one of the authors, the following must be
observed:
4.15.1 	A disclaimer stating that the work is not entirely theirs
should be provided;
4.15.2 	The work cannot be published without the written
consent of the group of authors;
4.15.3 	If the work is separable (i.e., parts are clearly attributed
to the individual authors), the students may use and
must cite their own part only; otherwise, the students
must seek the written consent of the group of authors.
4.15.4 	Computer codes obtained from open source reference
may be copied subject to the license agreement,

-- 39 of 339 --

40
but the source should be cited, provided further that
the faculty member allows the use of open source
reference in the course.
4.16 	The University recognizes the value of genuine concern for the
environment. Students are encouraged to observe practices
that put this value into action.
4.17 	Faculty members, administrators, or staff members, as second
parents, may call the attention of students whose behavior and
actions do not uphold the provisions of this Student Handbook.
SECTION 5: LASALLIAN COMMUNITY STANDARDS
The character formation and the practice of Lasallian values are the
ultimate objectives of having rules and responsibilities, proper decorum
and social norms, in and outside the University. These define the Lasallian
community standards that play a significant role in providing Lasallian
students a holistic educational experience.
In line with this, the students are also expected to exercise their rights
as they fulfill their obligations and responsibilities in and outside the
campus. This is a response to their duty not only as students but also as
citizens. To fulfill these goals, Lasallian students need to know University
discipline policies, rules and procedures. This section intends to meet
this need.
5.1 	Role of the Student Discipline Formation Office
5.1.1 	The Student Discipline Formation Office (SDFO)
promotes and supervises student discipline formation
by implementing the provisions on this Student
Handbook, primarily within University premises as
defined on this section and also during University-
supervised activities held outside its premises.
It focuses on corrective measures for student
misbehavior and preventive discipline approaches
including discipline orientation and learning sessions
and formative interventions.
5.1.2 	The specific functions of the SDFO are to:
• 	Promote student discipline formation, ensure and
maintain proper student decorum, and instill the
value of responsibility and vigilance to students;

-- 40 of 339 --

41
• 	Protect the students and promote peace and order
in the campus through discipline education;
• 	Enforce the pertinent provisions of the Student
Handbook;
• 	Manage the lost and found items of the Lasallian
community;
• 	Support and perform the administrative functions
of the Student Discipline Formation Board (SDFB),
the University Panel for Case Conference (UPCC),
and the Office of the University Legal Counsel
(OULC);
• 	Provide student discipline clearances; and
• 	Coordinate with other offices and units of the
University on student discipline and decorum.
5.1.3 	There are three (3) sections under SDFO:
5.1.3.1 	Discipline Enforcement Section (DES) - this
section enforces the pertinent provisions
of Sections 1, 4, and 5 of the Student
Handbook on General Directives, Social
Norms, and Lasallian Community Standards.
5.1.3.2 	Discipline Education, Advocacy & Programs
Section (DEAPS) – this section carries
out the SDFO’s policy education, student
advocacies and formation programs.
5.1.3.3 	Lost and Found and Clearance Section
(LFCS) – this section ensures the proper
implementation of University policies, rules,
and regulations related to lost and found
items on campus, issuance of student
clearances, monitoring of the use of lockers
in the campus, and renders administrative
support to SDFB and UPCC for case hearing.
5.2 	Jurisdiction over Discipline-Related Cases
5.2.1 	The Director of SDFO shall have jurisdiction over all
minor offenses involving students under these rules.

-- 41 of 339 --

42
The respondent is required to see the Director of SDFO
who investigates and decides on the case.
5.2.2 	The University Panel for Case Conference (UPCC)
shall have jurisdiction over all major offenses involving
students should there be complete admission on the
part of the respondent.
The UPCC is composed of the Director of SDFO or an
appointed representative as the presiding officer, the
Dean of Student Affairs (DSA) or the Associate Dean
of Student Affairs as the DSA’s alternate, a student
representative trained and appointed by the USG and
SDFO, and the Associate Dean of the College where the
student belongs.
The UPCC meets the student and their parent/s or
guardian to hear and decide on the discipline offense
committed by the student.
5.2.2.1 	Proceedings in the case conference are
governed by rules applicable to Summary
Proceedings before the Student Discipline
Formation Board (SDFB).
5.2.3 	The Student Discipline Formation Board (SDFB) shall
have jurisdiction over all major offenses involving
students should there be incomplete or qualified
admission, or full denial on the part of the respondent,
pursuant to the published rules of the SDFO.
5.2.3.1 	The SDFB is composed of a Chair who
is a member of the Integrated Bar of the
Philippines (IBP) and not a member of the
Student Discipline Formation Office (SDFO),
and three other members representing
sectors of administration, faculty, and
students. The sector representatives may
appoint alternates. The administration and
student representatives shall not come from
the SDFO and the USG, respectively.
The Associate University Legal Counsel
(AULC), who is a member of the IBP
and appointed by the President from
the University constituency, assists the
University and the parties in conducting
formal hearings.

-- 42 of 339 --

43
5.2.3.2 	Formal Hearing before the Board
Procedures for the filing of complaint,
investigation, and case endorsement in
this section will be standard also for the
management of all complaints and cases.
The following procedures, which may be
conducted face-to-face or online, will be
followed in handling complaints against
students.
Refer to Appendix P for a flowchart of this
procedure.
5.2.3.2.1 	Complaint
5.2.3.2.1.1
For major discipline offenses,
a formal complaint in writing
whether under oath or not is
filed with the SDFO by any
person having direct knowledge
of the commission of the act
complained within 100 calendar
days upon the date of its
discovery.
For minor offenses, 30 calendar
days is given to the complainant
to file a written complaint with
the SDFO from the date of its
discovery.
5.2.3.2.1.2
The SDFO will ask the respondent
to fill out the Incident Report and
Student Response Form.
5.2.3.2.1.3 	If the respondent
will not indicate the presence
of a mental health condition,
the case will be handled with
the usual process (see Section
5.2.3.2.2 and onwards) and will

-- 43 of 339 --

44
be endorsed to the OULC to
determine if the case should
proceed or be dismissed. If in
the process, a mental health
concern arises, SDFO may refer
the respondent to the OCCS for
psychological support and/or
the LCIDWell for assessment and
intervention.
5.2.3.2.1.4 	If the respondent
reports a mental health condition
as stated in the Student
Response Form, the respondent
will be asked to submit a
psychological report from a
licensed clinical psychologist.
If the respondent has not been
assessed, he/she will be required
to undergo a psychological
assessment with the following
options:
5.2.3.2.1.4.1
Option 1: The LCIDWell clinical
psychologist will conduct the
psychological assessment.
5.2.3.2.1.4.2
Option 2: The respondent
will be asked to undergo a
psychological assessment from
a licensed psychologist external
to DLSU and the report will be
submitted to SDFO and will
be reviewed by the LCIDWell
clinical psychologist.
5.2.3.2.1.5 	If the respondent
is undergoing psychological
assessment and/or intervention,
the complainant will be informed.
5.2.3.2.1.6 	The LCIDWell
clinical psychologist may provide

-- 44 of 339 --

45
recommendations for:
• 	Further assessment
• 	Possible interventions
• 	Handling case investigation
and deliberations by the UPCC/
SDFB
• 	Other mental health support
5.2.3.2.1.7 	If recommended
for further psychological
assessment and/or intervention,
the respondent will be asked to
submit a certification from the
attending clinical psychologist or
psychiatrist to SDFO.
5.2.3.2.1.8 	The case will
be endorsed to the OULC to
determine if the case should
proceed or be dismissed.
5.2.3.2.1.9 	The LCIDWell clinical
psychologist can be invited as
a resource person during the
hearings as a consultant on
mental health issues in the case
deliberations.
Refer to Appendix P for a
flowchart that illustrates the
above procedures.
5.2.3.2.2 	Answer
5.2.3.2.2.1
The SDFO shall conduct an initial
investigation of the complaint
by requiring the respondent to
answer within five (5) working
days from receipt of the
complaint. The respondent may
opt to remain silent during the
initial investigation.

-- 45 of 339 --

46
5.2.3.2.3 	Clarificatory Hearing to
Determine Prima Facie Case /
Mediation
The University Legal Counsel
(ULC) may summon both parties
for clarificatory questions in
determining whether there is a
prima facie case.
If the ULC finds no prima facie
case, they would dismiss the
complaint. The decision of the
ULC in finding whether or not
there is a prima facie case is final
and not appealable.
If the ULC finds a prima facie
case, the complaint will be given
clearance to proceed.
If the case falls under the list of
mediatable offenses, the case
may be referred to mediation
upon agreement of the parties
under Section 5.2.3.4.
The decision of the ULC on
whether there is a prima facie
case is final and not appealable.
5.2.3.2.4 	Endorsement to SDFB/UPCC
After the ULC resolution, the
SDFO shall endorse the case and
all pertinent documents to the
SDFB/UPCC for case conference.
5.2.3.2.5 	Notice of Hearing
After completion of the required
documents, the case is filed
before the SDFB and a notice
of hearing will be issued to all
parties involved.
The issuance of the notice of
initial hearing is mandatory. The

-- 46 of 339 --

47
notice of hearing should be sent
at least five working (5) days
before the date of the hearing
except when a new schedule
has been agreed upon during the
hearing.
5.2.3.2.6 	Hearing
In all cases where the complaint
is found to be sufficient in
form and substance, the Chair
convenes the SDFB to a formal
hearing. A majority of the SDFB
constitutes a quorum but the
student representative should
always be present.
5.2.3.2.6.1
The clarificatory hearing before
the SDFB shall be summary in
nature and shall be conducted
using the case conference type
of proceedings. However, the
SDFB should ensure that the
following standards required by
due process in discipline cases
are satisfied:
5.2.3.2.6.1.1
The respondent should have
been informed in writing of
the nature and cause of the
accusation;
5.2.3.2.6.1.2
The respondent should have
been granted the right to
answer the charges against
them;
5.2.3.2.6.1.3
The respondent should be
informed of the evidence
against them;

-- 47 of 339 --

48
5.2.3.2.6.1.4
The respondent is given the
right to adduce evidence on
their own behalf; and
5.2.3.2.6.1.5
The evidence should be
considered by the SDFB.
5.2.3.2.6.2
Should the complaining witness
fail to appear without just cause
on the scheduled initial hearing
despite notice, the complaint is
dismissed. On the other hand,
should the respondent fail to
appear for the initial hearing after
notice and without sufficient
cause, this fact is placed on
record and the hearing shall
proceed ex-parte without
prejudice to the appearance
of respondent in subsequent
hearings.
5.2.3.2.6.3
Evidence, testimonial or
documentary, is limited to
allegations in the complaint or
answer;
5.2.3.2.6.4
Witnesses testify under oath.
Testimonial Affidavit may be
submitted.
5.2.3.2.6.5
The Chair exercises complete
control of the proceedings on
all stages. The Chair prescribes
the order in the presentation
of evidence by the parties. The
Chair rules on the exclusion of
other witnesses for the same
party while a witness testifies.
The Chair has the power to rule

-- 48 of 339 --

49
on the admissibility of evidence
or testimony. The Chair may
invite a University Counselor as
consultant or resource person
during the formal hearings and/
or summary proceedings. The
student-respondent may be
represented by a private counsel
of choice during formal hearings.
However, the private counsel
must direct all clarificatory
questions through the SDFB
Chair, who can screen the
questions to be asked.
5.2.3.2.6.6
As a general rule, clarificatory
hearings are continuous
the moment they begin. All
cases should be finished the
soonest possible time, but
each party is allowed only one
postponement upon submission
of a written request addressed
to the SDFB at least three (3)
working days before the date
of formal hearings or summary
proceedings or to the UPCC for
case conferences copy furnished
all concerned.
5.2.3.2.6.7
A record of the entire proceeding
is taken and filed as part of the
record of the case. The parties
may be furnished copies of
the record (Transcript of the
Stenographic Notes) of the
proceedings upon request and
upon payment of the required
fee.

-- 49 of 339 --

50
5.2.3.2.7 	Decision
5.2.3.2.7.1
The duty of the SDFB is to find
and establish facts relevant and
substantial evidence on which to
base a decision rendered in the
manner provided.
5.2.3.2.7.2
A majority of the SDFB, which
consists of a quorum, is
necessary to pass a judgment
in a case. However, if the
penalty imposed is expulsion or
dismissal, a unanimous vote of
the members present consisting
a quorum is necessary. Failure
to obtain a unanimous vote
automatically calls for the
imposition of the next lower
penalty. In case of a tie on
whether the respondent is guilty
or not, the student respondent
shall be exonerated, or the case
shall be dismissed. It is the duty
of members of the SDFB present
and constituting a quorum to
cast their votes. There shall be no
abstentions.
5.2.3.2.7.3
The SDFB renders its decision
within five (5) working days from
the date the case is submitted
for decision. The decision shall
be in writing stating the reasons
therefore, copy furnished the
Provost, the Associate Dean
of the college to which the
respondent belongs, the Dean
of Student Affairs, the Director
of OCCS, the SDFB members,
the ULC, the aggrieved party
and witnesses, as well as the

-- 50 of 339 --

51
respondent and their parent or
guardian. A copy of the decision
with the complaint is filed with
the SDFO and forms part of the
respondent’s record.
5.2.3.2.7.4
A party not satisfied with the
decision of the SDFB may appeal
the decision in writing to the
Provost within five (5) working
days from receipt of the decision,
specifically stating the grounds
for the appeal (e.g., lack of due
process, penalty is too severe,
the decision is not based on the
evidence presented, etc.). If an
appeal is not availed of by a party
within the period prescribed,
or is turned down, the decision
of the SDFB becomes final and
immediately executory. The
SDFB may defer the imposition of
penalty for meritorious reasons.
5.2.3.3 	Summary Proceedings
If during the clarificatory hearing by the
SDFB, the respondent appears and admits
guilt in writing, the case may be acted upon
by the SDFB summarily. This is entered
into the record and the Chair of the SDFB
may decide that a hearing be dispensed
with. The action is terminated as soon as
the respondent explains the charges and
the members of the SDFB are through with
their clarificatory questions. Any penalty
imposed in a summary proceeding is final
and immediately executory unless the Board
defers the imposition of the penalty for
meritorious reasons.
5.2.3.4 	Mediation
For offenses that can be the subject of
mediation as defined in this rule, the parties
may undergo mediation and enter into a

-- 51 of 339 --

52
compromise agreement to settle the case.
The following are the specific rules on the
mediation process:
5.2.3.4.1 	Any compromise agreement
or settlement shall be done
prior to the termination of the
reception of evidence for the
complainant/s.
5.2.3.4.2 	Any settlement reached
after the termination of the
reception of the evidence for
the complainant/s shall be valid
only upon the approval of the
Office of the University Legal
Counsel (OULC). The effect of
the compromise agreement
or settlement shall be the
withdrawal and termination of
the case.
5.2.3.4.3 	In all cases where the case is
already filed with the Student
Discipline Formation Board
(SDFB), the compromise
agreement or withdrawal shall be
with the approval of the SDFB.
5.2.3.4.4 	If the compromise agreement
was executed prior to the
submission of the records to
the OULC, the compromise
agreement shall be noted and
become part of the Investigation
Report to be endorsed to
the Office of the University
Legal Counsel for review,
recommendation, and approval.
5.2.3.4.5 	Before the submission of the
case to the OULC and up to the
filing of the case with the SDFB,
the parties may make a written
request to the Student Discipline
Formation Office (SDFO) for the

-- 52 of 339 --

53
appointment of a mediator or
panel of mediators to facilitate
the mediation process.
5.2.3.4.6 	In cases where the compromise
agreement was executed
when it is with the OULC for
determination of whether there
is a prima facie case and prior to
filing of the case with the SDFB,
the compromise agreement
and eventual termination of the
case shall be valid only upon
the approval of the OULC. The
settlement of the case among
the parties shall be considered
by the OULC in its determination
of whether there is a prima facie
case but shall not bar the OULC
from filing the case with the
SDFB.
5.2.3.4.7 	Upon agreement of the parties
to settle the case, the parties
shall execute a compromise
agreement manifesting their
agreement to settle the case and
setting forth the reasons for the
settlement.
5.2.3.4.8 	The procedures below will serve
as guide for mediation process
for cases already filed with the
SDFB:
5.2.3.4.8.1 	SDFB shall make
a determination if the case
is a mediatable one. If in the
affirmative, the Chair will ask
the parties if they are willing to
undergo mediation.
5.2.3.4.8.2 	If any of the
parties disagree, the summary
proceedings or formal hearing
shall proceed as scheduled.

-- 53 of 339 --

54
On the other hand, if there is
agreement, the Board will appoint
a mediator or panel of mediators
from the pool of trained
mediators.
5.2.3.4.8.3 	The mediator or
panel of mediators shall submit a
report to the SDFB of the result of
the mediation process. The SDFB
shall review the mediation report
and the compromise agreement
and shall approve the same
unless it is contrary to law, public
order, or public policy.
5.2.3.4.8.4 	The matters
discussed in the mediation
process are strictly confidential
and are inadmissible as evidence
in the case.
5.2.3.4.9 	While mediation is encouraged,
there are offenses which are,
by its nature, non-mediatable.
These involve offenses which
violate basic principles of
honesty and integrity and are
not personal in nature. All cases
are subject to mediation EXCEPT
for the following offenses which
are considered non-mediatable
offenses:
• 	any form of cheating or
academic dishonesty
• 	cases involving use of
firecrackers, deadly weapon,
drugs, alcohol, and other vices
• 	deliberate disruption of
academic function
• 	acts of lewdness or any acts
of immorality

-- 54 of 339 --

55
• 	unauthorized collection of
money
• 	forgery and/or tampering
with official or academic
records or any form of fraud
• 	scalping
• 	bribery
• 	computer security breach
• 	willful failure to comply with
discipline related summonses
• 	any violation of the Data
Privacy Act
• 	cybercrime
• 	violation of policies on the
legal review of contracts
• 	violation of any provisions
stated in the Zero Tolerance for
all Forms of Violence Policy.
• 	other analogous cases where
it involves moral turpitude.
5.2.4 	Special Powers
The Deans are granted a special power to
suspend students involved in fraternity
rumbles, tumultuous affrays, boycotts, or
illegal demonstration for a maximum period
of fifteen (15) working days effective upon
its imposition.
Any decision of the Dean under this section
may be appealed to the Provost within five
(5) working days from the date the decision
is handed. The appeal does not, however,
stay the suspension imposed. Any action
taken by the Dean, under this section, does
not prevent other disciplinary actions that
may be imposed arising from the same act
or acts.

-- 55 of 339 --

56
5.2.4.1 	The faculty members have the right to
demand the presentation of a students’
ID, to give a grade of 0.0, and to deny
admission to class of any student caught
cheating under Sec. 5.3.1.1. Students should
immediately be informed of their grades and
barred from further attending their classes.
5.2.4.2 	Discipline Formation Officers have the
right to demand for the presentation of the
students’ ID and summon students who
violate any University policy to SDFO for
investigation.
5.2.5 	Summary Powers
5.2.5.1 	For the College Dean or the College
Associate Dean
The College Dean, or the College Associate
Dean, in the absence of the former, may
proceed summarily against any student in
the following cases:
5.2.5.1.1 	Violation of rules and regulations
issued by the College.
5.2.5.1.2 	Misconduct committed in the
presence of a faculty member
or any official of the University
within the jurisdiction of the
College, or in the course of a
university function sponsored by
the College.
5.2.5.2 	For the Dean of Student Affairs
The Dean of Student Affairs may proceed
summarily against any student in the
following cases:
5.2.5.2.1 	Misconduct under Sec. 5.2.5.1.2
when committed within the

-- 56 of 339 --

57
University premises but outside
the jurisdiction of any college,
school, or academic unit or in the
course of a university function.
5.2.5.2.2 	Misconduct under Sec. 5.3.1.4,
whether or not the acts are
committed within the premises,
and by individuals belonging to
one or several colleges, schools,
or academic units.
5.2.5.2.3 	Misconduct under Sec. 5.3.1.5,
and Sec. 5.3.1.6.
5.2.5.3 	Procedures
5.2.5.3.1 	The student is summoned
to appear before the Dean,
informed of the charge
against them and afforded the
opportunity to present their side.
5.2.5.3.2 	Should the student refuse
without cause to appear
before the Dean despite being
summoned, the refusal is taken
into account in imposing the
penalty corresponding to the
offense committed.
5.2.5.3.3 	Any decision taken under this
section should be in writing,
stating the grounds for which
disciplinary action is taken. The
decision is final and executory
upon the issuance of the order.
5.2.5.3.4 	The penalty imposed under
this section is suspension not
exceeding fifteen (15) calendar
days.
5.2.5.3.5 	Any decision of the Dean under
this section may be appealed
to the Provost within five (5)
working days upon receipt of the

-- 57 of 339 --

58
decision. The appeal does not,
however, stay the suspension
imposed. Any action taken by
the Dean under this section does
not prevent other disciplinary
actions that may be imposed
arising from the same act or
acts.
5.2.6 	The rules governing the handling of discipline cases
involving students from DLSU, DLS-CSB, and DLS-MHSI
are as follows:
5.2.6.1 	Ordinarily, cases under this section are
handled by the Student Discipline Formation
Board of the school where the respondent
belongs. However, the case shall be initiated
by the said discipline office where the
offense was committed, following the
procedures in handling discipline cases and
complaints in their school.
This is without prejudice to the right of
the complainant to file the case in any
forum other than with the Board. All three
schools should extend cooperative efforts
in the service of the required documents or
pleadings, in the safeguarding of evidence,
and in other measures related to the case.
5.2.6.2 	In cases arising from the same incident
falling under this section, the Student
Discipline Formation Office, or similar office,
of the respective schools consolidate the
cases and file with a joint expanded Board to
be constituted for this purpose.
The joint expanded Board is composed
of the Chairs of the Discipline Boards,
administration, faculty, and student
representatives of the two schools. The
Chair of the Discipline Board of the school
with a bigger number of respondents shall
act as Chair and the other as Co-Chair.

-- 58 of 339 --

59
5.2.6.3 	Where the number of respondents from
both schools are the same in number, the
joint expanded Board is presided by the
Chair of the Board of the school where the
offense is committed.
5.2.6.4 	The procedures governing the hearing of the
case are those of the school where the Chair
of the joint expanded Board comes from.
5.3 	Types of Offenses
5.3.1 	Major Offenses
5.3.1.1 	Cheating in any form during an examination,
test, or written reports including reaction
papers, case analysis, experiments or
assignments required. The act of cheating
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
5.3.1.1.1 	Unauthorized possession of
notes or any material relative to
the examination or test whether
the student uses them or not.
5.3.1.1.2 	Copying or allowing another to
copy from one’s examination
papers. In the latter case, both
parties are liable.
5.3.1.1.3 	Looking at another student’s
examination paper or allowing
another student to look at their
examination paper.
5.3.1.1.4 	Communicating with another
student or any person in any
form during an examination or
test without permission from the
teacher or proctor. This includes
leaking examination questions to
another or other student/s.
5.3.1.1.5 	Having somebody else take an
examination or test for one’s self
or prepare a required report or
assignment. If both parties are

-- 59 of 339 --

60
students, both are liable.
5.3.1.1.6 	Plagiarism; and
5.3.1.1.7 	Other forms of academic
dishonesty as duly approved by
University authority.
5.3.1.2 	Vandalism or the deliberate destruction
of property belonging to any member of
the DLSU community including visitors on
campus.
5.3.1.3 	Carrying or possession of a deadly weapon
inside the University premises or outside
the University during an academic function
or activity without securing a permit from
the University Safety Office and/or Security
Office in consultation with SDFO.
5.3.1.4 	Deliberate disruption of the academic
function or a university activity that tends
to create disorder, tumult, breach of peace
or serious disturbance not necessarily
connected with any academic function or
university activity.
5.3.1.5 	Brawls within the University premises or
outside the University during an academic
function or activity.
5.3.1.6 	Direct assault or inflicting physical injuries
on any person inside or outside the
University during an academic function or
activity.
5.3.1.7 	Unauthorized bringing in, carrying,
possession or use of prohibited or regulated
drugs or chemicals without proper
prescription, inside University premises or
outside the University during an academic
function or activity, and any other violation
of the provisions of Republic Act 9165,
otherwise known as the “Comprehensive
Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002.”

-- 60 of 339 --

61
5.3.1.8 	Unauthorized bringing in, possession or
drinking of liquor or alcoholic beverages
inside the University premises or outside
the University during an academic function
or activity or entering the University
premises or attending academic functions
or activities under the influence of liquor
or alcoholic beverages. Students are
considered under the influence of liquor if
they are found to have had an alcohol intake
regardless of the amount.
5.3.1.9 	Gross acts of disrespect in words or in
deed that tend to put the University or any
administrator, faculty member, co-academic
personnel, security guard, maintenance
personnel, student, and visitor in ridicule or
contempt.
5.3.1.10 	Threatening others with any act amounting
to a crime, delict or wrong, or with the
infliction of any injury or harm upon their
persons, honor, or integrity.
5.3.1.11 	Acts of lewdness or commission of any act
of immorality such as but not limited to the
following: being inside a cubicle of a comfort
room with another person regardless
of gender or sex; necking or petting;
viewing, reading, displaying or distributing
pornographic materials inside the University
(unless with SDFO permit and endorsed by
the faculty member concerned as part of a
course requirement), including accessing
Internet sites that do not correlate to
any specific subject or course within the
University.
5.3.1.12 	Acts that bring the name of the University
into disrepute such as public and malicious
imputation of a crime, or of a vice or defect,
real or imaginary, or any act, omission,
condition, status or circumstance, tending
to cause dishonor, discredit or contempt to

-- 61 of 339 --

62
the name of the University.
5.3.1.13 	Unjust enrichment; stealing whether
attempted, frustrated, or consummated; or
failure to turn over items to the SDFO Lost
and Found Section.
5.3.1.14 	Unauthorized collection or extraction of
money, checks or other instruments as
equivalent of money, which includes but
is not limited to, matters pertaining to the
University.
Failure to deposit collected, solicited funds
from official activities to the organization’s
in-campus depository account no later than
three (3) working days.
Any unauthorized actions relating to the
deposit of the collected money, in an
individual’s personal or non-recognized bank
account.
5.3.1.15 	Forging, falsifying, or tampering with
academic or official records or documents
of any kind; or intentionally making a false
statement of any material fact or practicing
fraud or deception in connection with
anything that pertains to the University.
5.3.1.16 	Gambling in any form inside the University,
including betting in any form in the UAAP,
NBA, or any other games or events. This also
applies to academic functions or activities
conducted outside the University.
5.3.1.17 	Conviction before any court for a criminal
offense involving moral turpitude, against
person or property other than through
reckless imprudence.
5.3.1.18 	Planning and/or Execution of the Hazing
and/or any violent activity. As outlined in
Republic Act 11053, any student found to
be responsible for being directly involved in

-- 62 of 339 --

63
the planning or execution of hazing will be
penalized.
5.3.1.18.1 	Students who are found to be present in
the planning or execution of hazing and
failed to take action to halt the planning,
prevent the execution, or alert proper
authorities such as, but not limited to, the
school administration or law enforcement
authorities.
5.3.1.18.2 Students found to knowingly cooperate with
carrying out the hazing activities.
5.3.1.19 	Attempt to Conceal or Hide Acts of Hazing
and/or any violent activity. Any attempt to
hide, conceal, or otherwise obstruct ongoing
investigations about cases related to hazing
will be penalized.
5.3.1.20 	Activities that Result in Violence. All
interactions among students, fraternities,
sororities, and any recognized and
unrecognized organization which result in
violence, such as but not limited to, hazing,
brawls, fist fights, etc., thereby exposing
the studentry and the University to harm,
physical danger, and damage to property.
5.3.1.21 	Willful failure to comply with summonses or
notices issued for purposes of investigation
conducted in connection with discipline-
related offenses.
5.3.1.22 	Hazing or physical injuries committed as
a result of an initiation rite or practice as a
prerequisite for admission into membership
in a fraternity, sorority, or organization by
placing the recruit neophytes or applicants
in embarrassing or humiliating situations,
such as forcing them to do menial, silly,
foolish, and similar tasks or activities or
otherwise subjecting them to physical
or psychological suffering or injury (as
stipulated in Republic Act No. 8049 and
as amended in Republic Act 11053 or the

-- 63 of 339 --

64
Anti-Hazing Act of 2018) For this purpose,
the members who were present shall be
liable whether they participated or not. The
officers of the organization, society or group,
shall also be liable, whether or not they were
present during the hazing incident.
5.3.1.23 	Perjury, defined as testifying falsely in any
administrative proceeding, or knowingly
making untruthful statements on
documents under oath when such oath is
required.
5.3.1.24 	Possession or causing the explosion of
firecrackers inside the University or outside
the University during academic functions
or activities, unless authorized by the Vice
President for Administration.
5.3.1.25 	Lending ID to another or using someone
else’s ID.
5.3.1.26 	Making sexual advances in words or deeds
to another student or to any member of the
academic community.
5.3.1.27 	Illegal or unauthorized reproduction of
University materials.
5.3.1.28 	Such other acts as may be determined by
University authorities upon consultation
with student representatives, provided the
application is prospective and properly
disseminated to students through official
student media, official DLSU Website
announcements, or both.
5.3.1.29 	Repetitive and or willful violation of
established policies, rules, or regulations
consisting in the commission of three (3)
minor offenses of the same kind or nature,
or five (5) minor offenses of different kinds
or nature.
5.3.1.30 	Violation of the De La Salle University
Policies on Intellectual Property (I.P.) (Please
refer to Appendix M)

-- 64 of 339 --

65
5.3.1.31 	Scalping or selling of UAAP and other events’
tickets at a price higher than the prescribed
or approved amount.
5.3.1.32 	Bullying another in any form or violation of
any of the provisions of the Republic Act
10627 or Anti-Bullying Act of 2013.
5.3.1.33 	Rape, any form of sexual assault, or abuse
(as defined in Republic Act 8353 or the Anti-
Rape Law of 1997 and in Republic Act 9262
or the Anti-Violence against Women and
their Children Act of 2004).
5.3.1.34 	Acts that cause emotional and
psychological distress such as but not
limited to annoyance or mischief (Unjust
vexation as defined in Article 287 of Revised
Penal Code).
5.3.1.35 	Violation of the Data Privacy Act (as defined
in Republic Act 10173 or the Data Privacy
Act of 2012).
5.3.1.36 	Violation of policies on legal review of
contracts and on signatory authority of
contracts.
5.3.1.37 	Commission of any cybercrime offense as
defined under Republic Act 10175 or the
Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012, such as:
5.3.1.37.1 Offenses against the
confidentiality, integrity and
availability of computer data and
systems (e.g., illegal access, data
or system interference, misuse
of devices, cyber-squatting)
5.3.1.37.2 Computer related offenses (e.g.,
forgery, computer fraud, identity
theft)
5.3.1.37.3 Content related offenses: (e.g.,
cybersex, child pornography,
unsolicited commercial
communications

-- 65 of 339 --

66
5.3.1.37.4 Cyber Libel. (Article 355 of the
Revised Penal Code by means of
computer system)
5.3.1.37.5 Other offenses (e.g., aiding or
abetting cybercrimes)
5.3.1.38 	Direct or indirect offering, promising or
giving of gifts, money or other things
of value in exchange for any favor or
the performance of an act or omission
that violates University regulations, or in
expectation of favor in the future.
5.3.1.39 	Any kind of provocation that results in
heated verbal or physical confrontation
between students and groups of students.
5.3.1.40 	The act of taking, creating, or having
possession of photos or videos of any
member of the academic community in
digital or physical format, or of a database
containing the same, without the latter’s
consent or an official authorization from the
University, including but not limited to:
5.3.1.40.1 Recording of classes, meetings,
conferences, interviews,
activities, or any conversation
with any member of the
academic community
5.3.1.40.2 Posting or sharing in any
messaging, social media, video
streaming, storage, or database
platform of any recording of
classes, meetings, conferences,
interviews, conversations,
photos, or videos of any member
of the academic community.
5.3.1.40.3 Sharing of electronic access
or link to any curricular or
co-curricular activities or to a
database containing any such
photo, video, or audio recording
of any member of the academic
community.

-- 66 of 339 --

67
5.3.1.41 	Any and all acts of discrimination against
any member of the academic community
for having any real or perceived mental
health condition as defined by Section 4(e)
and 4(k) of Republic Act 11036, otherwise
known as the Philippine Mental Health Act
of 2017
(e) Discrimination refers to
any distinction, exclusion
or restriction which has the
purpose or effect of nullifying
the recognition, enjoyment
or exercise, on an equal basis
with others, of all human rights
and fundamental freedoms in
the political, economic, social
cultural, civil or any other field.
(k) Mental Health Condition
refers to a neurologic
or psychiatric condition
characterized by the existence
of a recognizable, clinically-
significant disturbance in an
individual’s cognition, emotional
regulation, or behavior that
reflects a genetic or acquired
dysfunction in the neurological,
psychosocial, or developmental
process underlying mental
functioning. The determination
of neurologic and psychiatric
conditions shall be based on
scientifically-accepted medical
nomenclature and best available
scientific and medical evidence.
5.3.1.42 	Any student who, by any form of speech,
publication, or communication, willfully
makes a threat or maliciously conveys,
communicates, or disseminates false
information (i.e., any information that is
meant to intimidate or harass), knowing the
same to be false, concerning an attempt or

-- 67 of 339 --

68
plan being made to kill, injure, or intimidate
any person or to unlawfully damage any
property by means of explosives, incendiary
device, or other similar destructive force or
method against the person or property of
any member of the academic community.
5.3.2 	Minor Offenses
5.3.2.1 	Simple acts of disrespect in words or in
deed committed against any administrator,
faculty member, co-academic personnel,
security guard, maintenance personnel,
student, and visitor.
5.3.2.2 	Acts that disturb peace and order short of
being a major offense such as disturbing
classes, academic-related activities, or
university functions.
5.3.2.3 	Disobeying school regulations and other
rules approved by University authorities,
provided they are properly disseminated
to students through official student media
with monthly circulation, through official
DLSU Website announcements, or both.
5.3.2.4 	Disobeying classroom policies and
procedures.
5.3.2.5 	Refusal to present an ID or temporary
campus pass when asked by University
authorities.
5.3.2.6 	Proselytizing, defined as an attempt to
convert another to one’s faith by attacking
or denigrating other person’s practices and
beliefs, or by offering special inducements.
5.3.2.7 	Littering.
5.3.2.8 	Selling items, engaging in business, or
soliciting contributions or donations on
campus without prior approval of authority.
5.3.2.9 	Preventing the circulation of a recognized
student media by withholding or removing a
substantial number of copies from the news

-- 68 of 339 --

69
bins.
5.3.2.10 	Public Display of Physical Intimacy
(PDPI).
5.3.2.11 	Violation of policies of the Information
Technology Services (ITS) such as but not
limited to accessing unauthorized software
or web applications and the like, playing any
form of games, and using cellular phones
and other electronic communication
devices in computer laboratories.
5.3.2.12 	Use of classrooms and other school facilities
for any purpose without any reservation or
proper authorization.
5.3.2.13 	Loitering along the classroom corridors
while classes are going on for second and
succeeding violations.
5.3.2.14 	Second and succeeding violations of the
eating policy wherein eating and drinking
other than water in areas designated as
a non-eating place such as auditoriums,
seminar rooms, classrooms (except light
snacks such as biscuits and candies)
laboratories, libraries, chapels, and study
areas inside the buildings (unless otherwise
approved by University authorities)
5.3.2.15 	Smoking, including e-cigarettes, inside
University premises, along Agno and F. Reyes
Sts. until E. Razon Sports Complex Bldg.,
or outside the University during academic
functions or school activities.
In the Laguna Campus, this includes all
University premises including Residence
Halls, and the University Drive and parking
lots.
In the Taguig (BGC) Campus, this includes all
University premises including the University
Drive and parking lots.
5.3.2.16 	Playing of electronic, board and card games

-- 69 of 339 --

70
outside official University activities and
academic requirement in auditoriums,
seminar rooms, classrooms, laboratories,
libraries, chapels, and study areas inside the
buildings.
5.3.2.17 	Violation of policies on the use of lockers.
5.3.2.18 	Unhygienic and improper use of University
facilities.
5.3.2.19 	Second and succeeding violations of
policies on the lending of calculators from
SDFO.
5.3.2.20 	Second and succeeding violations of
policies on the use of University parking
slots.
5.3.2.21 	Entering any restricted area within the
University without prior permission or
authority. A restricted area is one that is
designated as such by the proper authorities
and marked with proper signage.
5.3.2.22 	Bringing cutters, pointed scissors and
laboratory instruments not duly endorsed
by a faculty member or an elected USG/
CSO/GSC officer and without the necessary
permit from SDFO in coordination with the
Security Office.
5.3.2.23 	Violation of the De La Salle University Policy
and Guidelines on the use of Trademarks
(Please refer to Appendix N).
5.3.2.24 	Failure to surrender the campus pass within
five (5) days from issuance.
5.3.2.25 	Entering the campus without the school ID,
the following policy will be observed:
5th (1st minor) - The Student will be
required to attend a formation program.
10th (2nd minor) – The Student will be
required to render eight (8) hours of

-- 70 of 339 --

71
University service.
15th (1st major) - The incident will already
be processed as a major offense subject
to the proceedings or rules established by
SDFO in its Manual of Operations.
For cases of lost IDs, a student is given
three (3) working days to secure a new ID.
Entering the campus without an ID after the
given period will be counted as entering the
campus without the school ID.
5.3.2.26 	Fifth and succeeding violations of the
Implementing Guidelines on the University
Attire Policy.
5.3.2.27 	Third and succeeding failure or refusal to
present University issued ID/ Campus Pass
inside the University premises or campus.
5.3.2.28 	Refusal to undergo random drug testing
required by the government and the
University.
5.3.2.29 	Failure to comply with the established
policies of DLSU-managed dormitories in
addition to those that have been already
specifically provided in this Student
Handbook.
5.4 	Corrective Measures and Formative Interventions
5.4.1 	For Major Violations
The corrective measures and formative interventions
for major offenses are the following:
5.4.1.1 	Probation for such time and under such
conditions8 as the SDFB or UPCC may
determine.
8 	Conditions may include undergoing the Strengthening Attitudes through
Values Enhancement & Development (SAVED) Program or Formation
on Restructuring and Managing the Self (FORMS) Program; personal
mentoring; rendering University service; attendance in relevant seminar/s
or learning session/s; counseling; psychological and/or behavioral
evaluation; drug testing, etc.

-- 71 of 339 --

72
5.4.1.2 	Suspension for such time and under such
conditions as the SDFB or UPCC may
determine.
5.4.1.3 	Dismissal
5.4.1.4 	Expulsion
5.4.2 	Minor Violations
The corrective measures and formative interventions
for minor violations are the following:
5.4.2.1 	For the first offense, written warning from
the Director of SDFO
5.4.2.2 	In case of a second offense, a written
reprimand from the Director of SDFO upon
submission of a written letter from parent/s
or guardian. The parent/s or guardian of
the student concerned may be invited by
the SDFO Director for a case conference to
discuss the discipline record of the student.
In case of third and succeeding offenses,
the student is charged with a major offense
under Sec. 5.3.1.29, if applicable; otherwise,
a written reprimand from the Director of
SDFO upon submission of a written letter
from parent/s or guardian. The parent/s or
guardian of the student may be invited again
by the SDFO Director for a case conference
to discuss the discipline record of the
student.
In any event the student may be required to
attend a formation session depending on
the assessed needs and the nature of the
violation; submit a written apology letter
addressed to the offended party (if the act
is personal in nature); referred to OCCS;
ordered the restitution or reparation of the
damage or injury sustained (if necessary);
or all.
5.4.3 	For offenses whose reach is increased because of
online visibility, then the Board may impose a higher
penalty.

-- 72 of 339 --

73
5.5 	Definition of Terms
As used in this section the term –
5.5.1 	Student refers to a person who, at the time of
commission of the offense, is:
5.5.1.1 	Enrolled in any subject or course in the
University, regardless of the number of units
enrolled.
5.5.1.2 	Included in the official student list of the
Office of the University Registrar (OUR),
whether enrolled, on official leave of
absence (LOA), on residency, or absence
without leave (AWOL).
5.5.1.3 	Allowed to graduate from the University but
has not yet secured the required clearances
from the University.
5.5.2 	University premises refer to the territorial boundaries
of De La Salle University Manila, Laguna, and Taguig
(BGC) Campuses, including the academic and non-
academic buildings, the parking lots adjacent to it as
well as immediate sidewalks within a periphery of
five (5) meters from gates, fences or dividing walls of
buildings and within a periphery of two hundred (200)
meters.
The coverage of the 200-meter peripheral in DLSU
Manila Campus jurisdiction are:
• 	From Sports Complex to DLSU Female Athletes’
Dorm (Fidel Reyes St.)
• 	From DLSU Facade to 944 Maligaya St. (after
Dagonoy) marked by a post
• 	From South Gate to the street across Starbucks
(up to the power source of LRT)
• 	From Biological Garden to front of SMDC
Condominium (formerly Harrison Plaza)
• 	In the DLSU-Laguna Campus, this covers the
University Drive and adjacent open spaces
surrounding the campus.

-- 73 of 339 --

74
• 	In the Taguig (BGC) Campus, this covers the
University Drive and adjacent open spaces
surrounding the campus.
The following offenses are considered within the
territorial boundaries of the University:
5.5.2.1 	Brawls, as defined in Section 5.3.1.5;
5.5.2.2 	Inflicting physical injuries on another as
defined in Section 5.3.1.6;
5.5.2.3 	Unauthorized bringing in, carrying,
possession or use of drugs or chemicals as
defined in Section 5.3.1.7;
5.5.2.4 	Vandalism or destruction of property
belonging to another, as defined in Section
5.3.1.2;
5.5.2.5 	Direct assault as defined in Section 5.3.1.6;
5.5.2.6 	Threatening another as defined in Section
5.3.1.10;
5.5.2.7 	Unjust enrichment as defined in Section
5.3.1.13;
5.5.2.8 	Making sexual advances as defined in
Section 5.3.1.26;
5.5.2.9 	Gambling as defined in Section 5.3.1.16;
5.5.2.10 	Drinking of liquor or alcoholic beverages in
public establishments;
5.5.2.11 	Rape, any form of sexual assault, or abuse
(as defined in the Republic Act 8353 or the
Anti-Rape Law of 1997 and the Republic Act
9262 or the Anti- Violence Against Women
and their Children as defined in Section
5.3.1.33;
5.5.2.12 	Act that causes emotional and
psychological distress such as but not
limited to annoyance or mischief (Unjust
vexation as defined in Article 287 of Revised

-- 74 of 339 --

75
Penal Code) as defined in Section 5.3.1.34;
5.5.2.13 	Any act of facilitating, recruiting, or soliciting
support for an unrecognized organization
that subscribes or participates in any illegal
act or that violates any University policy.
5.5.3 	“In flagrante” means the very act of committing a
discipline offense or the condition of being caught in
the act of committing the offense.
5.5.4 	“Ex-parte hearing” refers to a hearing held in the
absence of one of the parties.
5.5.5 	“Illegal demonstration” includes a public show of
feeling or opinion as by a mass meeting or parade
accompanied by force, coercion, or violence.
5.5.6 	“Deadly weapons” include but are not limited to
firearms (including spring-type, air, powder, and
similar mechanism), explosives (e.g., firecrackers,
pyrotechnics), stones, lead pipes, and sharp or cutting
instruments (e.g., pointed scissors, ice picks, Swiss
knives or blades of any length), with the exception of
cutters and laboratory instruments that are commonly
used for academic purposes; provided that in the
exceptional case, the one who brought the same
shall be equally responsible with the person who
inappropriately used it. Any similar object shall be
considered deadly weapons if used to inflict physical
injury or cause death. Tear gas, pepper spray, and
similar sprays normally used for self- defense are
allowed inside the campus provided that the one who
brought the same inside shall be equally responsible
with the student who inappropriately used said spray,
except in case of coercion which must be duly proven.
5.5.7 	“Unjust enrichment” means any condition where
students take a thing at the expense of another for
their benefit regardless of his intent to gain.

-- 75 of 339 --

76
SECTION 6: STUDENT GRIEVANCE
Students of De La Salle University have the right to air their complaints
and/or grievances against any member of the Lasallian Community.
Grievances are best settled through sincere dialogue and discussion
between the parties to a grievance, befitting a Lasallian academic
community. Formal grievance may be pursued only as a last resort after
efforts for informal complaints and mediation have been exhausted
through student-teacher dialogues. The procedures in handling informal
complaints and formal grievances are outlined in this section. For
assistance, students are encouraged to reach out to the University
Student Government (for undergraduate students) or the Graduate
Student Council (for graduate students).
6.1 	Definition of Terms.
1. 	Informal Complaint – A complaint communicated
verbally by a student or groups of students, whether
through face-to-face or in online meetings, to any
member of the Lasallian community.
2. 	Academic Grievance – A formal grievance that
succeeds the informal complaint process regarding
any controversy related to learning or to performance
in academic courses. It must be put into written form
and duly signed to be considered a formal grievance.
3. 	Behavioral Grievance – A formal grievance that
succeeds the informal complaint process regarding
any controversy related to the manner a person
conducts themself. It must be put into written form
and duly signed to be considered a formal grievance.
4. 	Complainant – The student who launches or files the
complaint or grievance.
5. 	Respondent – The person whom the complaint or
grievance is filed against.
6. 	Group/Class Grievance – A student, group or class
may raise a grievance. A grievance raised by three (3)
or more students is considered a group grievance. A
grievance raised by 50% + 1 of enrolled students in a
certain class is considered a class grievance. In cases
where 50%+1 are less than three (3), then this will be
considered as a class grievance.

-- 76 of 339 --

77
7. 	Appeal – It is a remedy when a party is dissatisfied with
the resolution of their case. They can submit an appeal
to the Ad Hoc Grievance Board after the resolution of
the Department Chair. Should they be dissatisfied with
the decision of the Dean from the recommendation
of the Ad Hoc Grievance Board then they may file an
appeal to the Provost. Should they be also dissatisfied
with the decision of the Provost, then they may file an
appeal to the University President.
8. 	Confidentiality – It refers to personal information and
details of the case shared by the concerned parties
that generally cannot be divulged to third parties
without the express consent of the concerned parties.
6.2 	The Ad Hoc Grievance Board
6.2.1 	Principal Function
The Ad HocGrievance Board (Board) is a quasi-judicial
body that hears and decides all grievance cases filed
by a student, group or class against any member of the
faculty brought to the college level in accordance with
the defined procedures.
6.2.2 	Composition
The Board shall be composed of the following:
1. 	The Associate Dean of the College to which
the faculty belongs, as the Chair of the
Board;
2. 	Senior Faculty Member of the Department
to which the faculty belongs;
3. 	The President of the University Student
Government (for undergraduate students)
or the President of the Graduate Student
Council (for graduate students);
4. 	The College President (for undergraduate
students) or the Graduate College President
(for graduate students) of the College to
which the student complainant belongs; and

-- 77 of 339 --

78
5. 	The President of the Association of Faculty
and Educators of DLSU (AFED).
6. 	The Chairperson of the Department to
which the grieved faculty belongs shall serve
as a resource person of board proceedings.
Other agreed individuals may be invited as
resource persons if the need arises.
6.2.3 	Powers
The Board shall exercise the following powers:
6.2.3.1 	Define the procedures to be followed in the
conduct of its hearings;
6.2.3.2 	Summon witnesses or persons whose
assistance is needed in arriving at a just and
fair decision;
6.2.3.3 	Access all information relevant to the case;
6.2.3.4 	Recommend to the Dean appropriate
measures consistent to its findings; and
6.2.3.5 	Exercise fairness and objectivity in hearing
the merits of the case, without prejudice to
either the complainant or the defendant..
6.3 	Procedures in Grievance Cases
6.3.1 	Informal Complaints
If a crisis arises, students are encouraged to
seek the assistance of the USG through their
respective Judiciary Student Advisers and/or batch
representatives (for undergraduate students) or
their GSC College President (for graduate students),
regarding the process of initiating an informal
complaint.
6.3.2 	Formal Grievance
In the event a student decides to pursue a formal
grievance, after availing the informal complaint
process, the steps to be taken are as follows:
6.3.2.1 	Grievance of a Student Against a Faculty
Member

-- 78 of 339 --

79
The procedures to be followed in handling
grievance cases filed by students against
faculty members are:
6.3.2.1.1 	If an undergraduate, the student
shall approach the Director of
the Student Advisers from the
University Student Government’s
Judiciary Department who shall
course the complaint and assign
a Student Adviser upon the
request of the student. If the
student is a graduate student,
the student shall approach
their Graduate Student Council
Officer who shall help the
student with regards to filing a
formal grievance.
6.3.2.1.2 	Grievance
The student files a written
grievance with the Department
Chair to which the concerned
faculty member belongs to at
any time during the term, but not
later than four calendar weeks
(28 calendar days) after Grade
Consultation Day.
The grievance should be
signed by the student and
accomplished in three (3) copies
to be distributed as follows:
• 	Original: Department Chair;
• 	One (1) copy: Faculty
Member (respondent); and
• 	One (1) copy: Student
File duly received by the
Department Chair (or any
representative)
A formal grievance should
contain the following:

-- 79 of 339 --

80
• 	The name of the faculty
member against whom the
grievance is filed;
• 	A narration of the
circumstances surrounding
the commission of the
act complained of with
supporting evidences or
documents attached;
• 	The specific action asked for
from the faculty member
and the University, and;
• 	The specific policy that
allegedly has been violated.
6.3.2.1.3 	Answer
6.3.2.1.3.1
Within three (3) working days
from receipt of the grievance, the
Department Chair writes (either
through email or formal letter) to
the faculty member concerned
to respond in writing, within three
(3) working days from receipt of
the notice.
The written answer shall also be
prepared in three (3) copies to be
distributed as follows:
• 	Original: Department Chair
• 	One (1) copy: Faculty
member file
• 	One (1) copy: Student as
complainant
6.3.2.1.3.2
Failure of the respondent to
answer the complaint in writing
within the period required shall
mean waiver of the right to
respond, and the Department

-- 80 of 339 --

81
Chair shall resolve the complaint
on the strength of the available
evidence.
6.3.2.1.3.3
Upon receipt of the written
answer by the respondent, the
Department Chair evaluates the
complaint and the answer. The
department chair may find it
necessary to ask for clarification.
In this case, the Department
Chair shall call the parties to a
meeting for this purpose within
three (3) working days from
receipt of the written answer.
6.3.2.1.3.4
Within three (3) working days
after the meeting and from
determination that sufficient
facts and evidence exist on
which to base a resolution, the
Department Chair resolves the
case. The resolution shall be in
writing stating the supporting
reasons and prepared in three
(3) copies to be distributed as
follows:
• 	Original: Department file
• 	One (1) copy: Student
(complainant)
• 	One (1) copy: Faculty
Member (respondent)
6.3.3 	Class or Group Grievance
The students involved in a group or class grievance
must elect an official group representative and affix
their respective signatures in the Summary of Events
document. Afterwards, they must proceed with the
appropriate grievance procedure.

-- 81 of 339 --

82
6.4 	Appeal and Escalation of Case
6.4.1 	Appeal to the Ad Hoc Grievance Board
A party not satisfied with the resolution of the
Department Chair may appeal the resolution to the Ad
Hoc Grievance Board in writing, within three (3) working
days from receipt of the resolution. The appeal shall be
taken in accordance with these procedures:
6.4.1.1 	The appellant sends a letter to the Dean of
the faculty concerned requesting that the
Board be convened to hear the grievance
complaint.
6.4.1.2 	Upon receipt of the letter, the Chair of
the Adhoc Grievance Board requires the
Department Chair concerned, in writing,
to endorse the case and all pertinent
documents to the Board within three (3)
working days.
6.4.1.3 	Upon receipt of the complete record of
the case, the Chair of the Adhoc Grievance
Board immediately convenes the Board for
the purpose of hearing the case.
6.4.1.4 	Before the deliberation of the case, the
Board first defines the procedures it will
follow in hearing the case except that:
6.4.1.4.1 	For the hearing to commence,
the board must be in a majority
(50%+1) quorum as long as both
faculty and student sectors are
represented.
6.4.1.4.2 	The parties concerned may
request the presence of a
counsel who could be but is not
limited to any member of the
Lasallian Community, to provide
them advice during the grievance
proceedings. Said counsels shall
not be allowed to participate
during the proceedings.

-- 82 of 339 --

83
• The Director of the Student
Advisers from the University
Student Government –
Judiciary Department, at the
request of an undergraduate
student appellant, shall assist
in the process of filing the
appeal.
• If the student is a graduate
student, the Executive Board
of the College Graduate
Student Council shall assist in
the process.
6.4.1.4.3 	Hearings shall be held on a
regular basis and shall not last for
more than six (6) working days
from the date of the first hearing.
6.4.1.4.4 	Only evidence (testimonial or
documentary) related to the
allegations of the complainant
shall be considered during the
hearings.
6.4.1.4.5 	The complainant shall have
their right to retract the formal
grievance before the Board
makes its recommendation.
6.4.1.4.6 	Within five (5) working days
from the date of last hearing,
the Board shall meet to
deliberate on the case and to
arrive at a recommendation.
Majority of the members of the
Board is required to arrive at a
recommendation.
6.4.1.4.7 	Copies of the recommendation
of the Board shall be furnished
to all the parties concerned
including the members of
the Board. A copy of the final
recommendation is also filed in

-- 83 of 339 --

84
the 201 files of the respondent.
6.4.1.4.8 	The Dean of the College shall act
on the Board’s recommendation
within three (3) working days
from receipt. Their decision shall
be put in writing. Copies of which
shall be distributed as follows:
• 	Original: Dean
• 	One (1) copy: Complainant
• 	One (1) copy: Respondent
• 	One (1) copy: Each member
of the Board
• 	One (1) copy: Dean of
Student Affairs
6.4.2 	Appeal to the Provost
A party not satisfied with the decision of
the Dean may appeal the decision to the
Office of the Provost, in writing, within five
(5) working days from receipt of the written
decision of the Dean.
Within five (5) working days from receipt
of the appeal, the Provost shall decide
the appeal and shall notify the parties of
the decision in writing. The decision of
the Provost is final and executory unless
the execution is deferred for meritorious
reasons.
6.4.3 	Appeal to the University President
A party not satisfied with the decision of
the Provost may appeal to the University
President, in writing, within five (5) working
days from the receipt of the written
decision.
If a decision of the Provost is not appealed
within the period provided, the decision

-- 84 of 339 --

85
becomes final and immediately executory
unless execution is deferred for meritorious
reasons.
Within five (5) working days from receipt
of the appeal, the President shall decide
the appeal and shall notify the parties of
the decision in writing. The decision of the
President is final and executory unless
the execution is deferred for meritorious
reasons.
6.5 	Other Types of Complaints
The student may approach the USG for assistance and/or file a
formal letter of complaint to the respective office. Here are the
following types:
1. 	Against another Student - The letter must
be sent and addressed to the Director of the
Student Discipline Formation Office (SDFO).
2. 	Against Non-Teaching Personnel - The letter
must be sent to the Unit Head or Department
Chair, endorsed by the Dean of Student Affairs.
3. 	Against a Department Chair, Assistant Dean, or
Associate Dean
4. 	Against a Dean - The letter must be sent and
addressed to the Provost.
5. 	Against Administrators - The letter must
be sent and addressed to the immediate
supervisor.
6. 	Against a Vice-President - The letter must be
sent ad addressed to the University President.
7. 	Against the Provost - The letter must be sent

-- 85 of 339 --

86
and addressed to the University President.
8. 	Against the University President - The letter
must be sent and addressed to the Chair of
the Board of Trustees.
6.5.1 	The complaint should be signed by the student and
accomplished in three copies to be distributed as
follows:
• 	Original: The Unit Head of the office concerned;
• 	One (1) copy: Respondent; and
• 	One (1) copy: Student file duly received and dated
by any representative from the respective office
6.5.2 	The complaint must contain the following:
• 	The name of the concerned party (student, faculty
member, specific office) for whom the complaint
is filed against;
• 	A narration of the circumstances surrounding the
commission of the act that was complained of
with the supporting evidence/s or document/s
attached;
• 	The specific action or solution asked for from
the concerned party (student, faculty member,
specific office) and the University; and
• 	The specific department or University policy that
was allegedly violated.
6.5.3 	Acknowledgment and Written Answer of the
Respondent. Within five (5) working days from receipt
of the complaint, the respective Unit Head writes the
respondent to answer the complaint in writing, within
five (5) working days from receipt of the notice.
The written answer shall also be prepared in three (3)
copies to be distributed as follows:
• 	One (1) copy for the office concerned;
• 	One (1) copy for the respondent; and
• 	One (1) copy for the Student as the complainant.

-- 86 of 339 --

87
6.5.4 	Failure of the respondent to answer the complaint
in writing within the period required shall allow the
respective office concerned to resolve the complaint
on the strength of the current pieces of evidence .
The failure to respond shall mean waiver of the
respondent’s right to explain their side. The respondent
may still file subsequent motions.
6.5.5 	Clarificatory Meeting between the Complainant and
Respondent
Upon receipt of the written answer by the respondent,
the office concerned evaluates the complaint and the
answer. The office concerned may find it necessary to
ask for clarification. In this case, the Unit Head shall call
the parties to a meeting for this purpose within three
(3) days from receipt of the written answer.
6.5.6 	Resolution of the Case
Within ten (10) days after the meeting and from the
determination that sufficient facts and evidence exist
on which to base a resolution, the office concerned
resolves the case. The resolution shall be in writing
stating the supporting reasons and prepared in three
(3) copies to be distributed as follows:
• 	Original: Office or Department file
• 	One (1) copy: Student (complainant)
• 	One (1) copy: Member of the Academic
Community (respondent)
6.5.7 	The University is committed to the prevention of
gender-based sexual harassment and discrimination
of students and the fulfillment of the promotion of
the value and dignity of every human person and full
respect for human rights;
6.5.7.1 	Submission to such conduct is made
explicitly or implicitly a term or condition for
a student’s educational advancement;

-- 87 of 339 --

88
6.5.7.2 	Submission to or rejection of such
conduct by a student is used as the basis
for academic consideration affecting the
student; and
6.5.7.3 	Such conduct has the purpose or effect of
substantially interfering with a student’s
academic performance or creating an
intimidating, hostile or offensive educational
environment.
6.5.8 	Any student who intends to file a gender-based sexual
harassment and/or discrimination complaint should
follow the steps outlined in the DLSU Safe Spaces
Policy found in Appendix I and seek the assistance of
the Lasallian Center for Inclusion, Diversity, and Well-
being (LCIDWell).
6.6 	Procedures Common to Sections 6.5 and 6.6
The complaint, answer, memorandum, recommendation,
decision, as well as transcripts of all proceedings should be in
writing and signed by all parties concerned.

-- 88 of 339 --

89
2 	Undergraduate
SECTION 7: FEES, SCHOLARSHIPS AND PAYMENTS
7.1 	Tuition and special fees are posted on the administrative
bulletin boards and the DLSU website prior to and during the
enrollment period. It is the student’s responsibility to know the
prescribed fees, scholarship grants, and payment policies.
7.2 	The University, through the Office of Admissions and
Scholarships (OAS), offers scholarships to deserving students
who pass the screening process. The various scholarship and
financial assistance programs are enumerated in Appendix C,
under Scholarships. Interested students may check the DLSU
website or send inquiries through scholarships@dlsu.edu.ph for
more information.
7.2.1 	Loans are available to students with at least one (1)
term of enrollment at the University and who cannot
meet the regular deadline for payments of tuition and
fees. After the deadline for loan payment, a 1% interest
per month shall be imposed on the outstanding loan.
Student loan applications do not entail any processing
fee.
7.2.2 	Students may avail of a loan every term, provided that
any previous loan balance has been fully paid. However,
student loan approvals are still subject to availability of
University funds.
7.2.3 	To enroll for the next trimester, loans obtained for a
current trimester must be settled one week before the
scheduled date of online enrollment for the succeeding
trimester.
7.3 	Undergraduate students may also approach the University
Student Government to apply for the Student Government
Assistant Fund (SGAF), a project of the University Student
Government-Office of the Executive Treasurer that provides
0% interest loans to DLSU students. SGAF provides loan
opportunities such as calamity, thesis and emergency loans.

-- 89 of 339 --

90
Students may approach the Office of the Executive Treasurer
for more information on the procedure for application for and
payment of SGAF.
7.4 	All refund checks pertaining to undergraduate students will be
payable to the parent/guardian on record.
The release of student refund checks for those who dropped
until the second week of classes will start on Week 5 of the
trimester and for those who dropped after the second week will
start on Week 10 of the trimester. Refund checks for ineligibles,
complete withdrawals and other cases shall be made available
ten (10) working days from receipt of the memo from the Office
of the University Registrar.
Claims for refund are made according to the Manual of
Regulations for Private Higher Education of the Commission on
Higher Education (2008).
When students register in a school, it is understood that they
are enrolling for the entire academic year for elementary and
secondary courses, and for the entire semester for collegiate
courses. Students who transfer or otherwise withdraw, in
writing, within two (2) weeks after the beginning of classes and
who have already paid the pertinent tuition and other school
fees in full for any length longer than one month, will be charged
a retention fee of 10 percent of the total amount due for the
term if they withdraw within the first week of classes, or a 50
percent retention fee if within the second week of classes,
regardless of whether or not they have actually attended
classes. Students may be charged all the school fees in full if
they withdraw any time after the second week of classes.
7.5 	Deadlines for payment of tuition and fees are posted on the
administrative bulletin boards and printed on the student’s
Enrollment Assessment Form (EAF). Students with outstanding
balances from previous trimesters will not be accommodated
for current transactions unless they settle their previous
accounts.
7.6 	Leave of Absence (LOA)
A student who files for a leave of absence will be refunded if
they submit their LOA form within the following dates:
7.6.1 	Before start of classes (Total payment less registration
fee)

-- 90 of 339 --

91
7.6.2 	First Week of the trimester (90% of the total
assessment)
7.6.3 	Second Week of the trimester (50% of the total
assessment).
No refund will be made after the Second Week of
the trimester except when the student is considered
ineligible. In this case, the refund will be 100% of the
total assessment or in the case of an installment basis,
the amount to be refunded will be the amount paid by
the student.
A student who paid on installment basis and eventually files
for a leave of absence after the second week of classes will still
have to pay the balance of the tuition and fees.
7.7 	Returned Checks
The responsibility of ensuring the check is well-funded rests
with the students. They should verify that their check has been
honored by the bank and, in case it has been dishonored, should
settle their account immediately by paying in cash or manager’s
check. Failure to do so will automatically result to the deletion of
the student’s name from the official enrollment list.
The student who paid within the regular enrollment period and
whose check was subsequently dishonored will incur a penalty
of PHP 500.00. The following additional charges will be imposed
if the said check was replaced within the following dates:
Within the first week of classes: PHP 200.00
Within the second week of classes: PHP 300.00
After the second week of classes: PHP 300.00 + PHP 100.00 /
delayed working day
Students whose checks have been dishonored twice during
their entire stay at the University may no longer make
subsequent payments using checks. Only cash and manager’s
check will be accepted.
7.8 	Personal Accident Insurance
Every student is covered by a Personal Accident Insurance. The
coverage is for 24 hours, on and off campus, and for injuries
caused by the accident.

-- 91 of 339 --

92
The following are covered by the insurance:
1. Accidental Death and Dismemberment;
2. Medical Reimbursement;
3. Burial Expense; and
4. Murder and Unprovoked Assault.
7.9 	The following procedure should be followed when availing of
student insurance:
7.9.1 	Submit soft copies of the required documents to the
1911 Insurance Agency Corp. (IAC) via 1911Insurance@
delasalle.ph.
7.9.2 	IAC personnel will review the documents and
coordinate with the claimants to submit the ORIGINAL
hard copies at their office located at the Ground Floor
of Br. John Hall.
7.9.3 	In cases of accidental death or murder or death by any
cause, the following documents are required:
1. Name of student and parent/relative (Claimant)
2. Original Sunlife Grepa Financial (SLGFI) Claimant’s
Statement Form to be accomplished by the
beneficiary who is 18 years old or above; if below 18,
by the guardian – Form will be provided by 1911 IAC
3. Original/Original Certified True Copy of Death
Certificate with seal and issued by the Local Civil
Registrar/PSA
4. Photocopy of Birth Certificate of Insured student
7.9.4 	In cases of injury (reimbursement of medical
expenses)
1. Medical Certificate;
2. Accident Report or Police Report; and
3. Original copy of Official Receipts of expenses (e.g.,
hospital bills, professional fee of doctors, medicine).
7.9.5 	Claim the check after two weeks at the Finance and
Accounting Office (FAO).

-- 92 of 339 --

93
7.10 	Exclusions from the insurance coverage include the following:
Suicide, bacterial infections, certain murder and assault, war
or organized hostilities, strikes, nuclear radiation, professional
athletics, mountaineering, scuba diving, aerial sports, racing, and
mine cave-ins.
7.11 	All financial transactions should be made through the Finance
and Accounting Office (FAO).
MODE OF PAYING TUITION AND FEES
7.12 	Cash, Personal Check or Manager’s Check
7.12.1 	Post-dated, state-dated, and/or overstated checks are
not accepted.
7.12.2 	Check must be replaced in case of alteration.
7.12.3 	The following information should be written correctly
on the back of the check: student’s full name, ID
number, degree program/college, telephone/mobile
number, and home address.
7.12.4 	The Student Services Section of the Finance and
Accounting Office will automatically cancel the official
receipt of those whose checks were returned or
dishonored by the bank for whatever reason.
7.12.5 	Replacement for returned or dishonored checks shall
be in cash or manager’s check and shall be paid to the
Cashier at the Finance and Accounting Office only.
7.13 	Credit/Debit Card Payment (onsite)
7.13.1 	Any Mastercard or VISA card through straight payment
is acceptable as mode of payment for tuition and fees.
Only one (1) swipe per card and up to a maximum of
two (2) credit cards are allowed per student.
7.13.2 	Credit card installment schemes are acceptable
through the following banks: Citibank (Paylite), BPI
(Special Installment Plan), and BDO (Easy Pay).
7.13.3 	Payment through credit card may be made only to the
Cashier at the FAO.
7.13.4 	The credit card holder or owner is required to be
present during payment to sign the credit card
transaction slips.

-- 93 of 339 --

94
7.14 	Online through:
1. DLSU’s Online Payment Gateway (OPG) using VISA and
Mastercard credit cards and debit cards
2. Dragonpay
7.15 	Over-the-counter (OTC) payment at any branch of BDO,
METROBANK, RCBC, UNIONBANK, selected LANDBANK branches
(P. Ocampo Branch only) indicating the following details:
1. Name of Bank : Banco De Oro (BDO)
Biller’s Name : De La Salle University – Manila
Institution Code : 1125
2. Name of Bank : Metrobank (MBTC)
Biller’s Name : De La Salle University Inc.
Institution Code : 921
3. Name of Bank : Rizal Commercial Banking
Corporation (RCBC)
Biller’s Name : De La Salle University – Manila
4. Name of Bank : Land Bank of the Philippines (LBP) – P.
Ocampo Branch
Biller’s Name : De La Salle University, Inc.
5. Name of Bank : UnionBank (UBP)
Biller’s Name : De La Salle University, Inc.
7.16 	For more details, please refer to this link: https://www.dlsu.edu.
ph/offices/accounting/official-payment-channels.
7.17 	DLSU official receipts shall be available for viewing or
downloading the following day from the date of payment after
the bank collection report has been uploaded, unless there are
discrepancies or exceptions noted.
7.18 	Full Payment

-- 94 of 339 --

95
7.18.1 	Undergraduate students, including Frosh, transferees,
and cross-enrollees, may pay their tuition and fees
through installment.
7.18.2 	Graduating students and upperclassmen with
assessments of PHP 12,000.00 and below must pay in
full.
7.18.3 	Students in all year levels must pay their tuition and
fees in full during summer classes.
7.19 	Installment Basis
7.19.1 	Students may pay their tuition and fees via
installment. The payment options may be viewed
through this link: https://www.dlsu.edu.ph/wp-content/
uploads/pdf/accounting/guidelines/payment-options-
full-and-installment.pdf
7.19.2 	An installment fee of PHP200 will be charged for a
2-payment scheme and PHP300 for a 3-payment
scheme.
7.19.3 	Students paying on installment basis who fail to pay
the balance on the stipulated deadline will be allowed
to complete the remainder of the term. However, such
students will not be allowed to enroll for the next term
and their transcript of records and transfer credentials,
certifications, and other documents will be withheld
until the balance is paid. In addition, a surcharge will be
imposed upon payment of the balance.
7.20 	Late Enrollment Fees
7.20.1 	On the Initial Payment: There is a deadline for paying
fees without a surcharge. A Late Enrollment Fee (LEF) is
imposed if payment is made after the deadline:
Start of classes 	PHP 200.00
Second Week 	PHP 300.00
Third Week 	PHP 400.00
Beyond third week 	PHP 400.00 + 100.00/working day
of delay
7.20.2 	Students with scholarships must submit to the Finance
and Accounting Office the Certificate of Support (COS)

-- 95 of 339 --

96
from OAS within the set deadline; otherwise, they will
also be subjected to late enrollment fees.
7.21 	On the Balance
7.21.1 	Any payment of the balances beyond the deadline
will incur a penalty. The surcharge to be imposed is as
follows:
Payment within the first week
after the deadline:
PHP 100.00
Payment within the second
week after the deadline:
PHP 200.00
Payment beyond two weeks
after the deadline:
PHP 300.00 but in no
case shall it exceed PHP
500.00
7.21.2 	Only the Cashier at the Finance and Accounting
Office (FAO) is authorized by the University to receive
payments. Payments made to unauthorized persons
will not be honored.
SECTION 8: ATTENDANCE
8.1 	Prompt and regular attendance in all classes is encouraged for
all students throughout the term.
8.2 	Faculty members are expected to begin their classes promptly.
However, unavoidable circumstances may cause them to be
late for class. In such cases, the following guidelines are to be
observed:
For 60-minute classes, students should not leave until after 20
minutes. For 90- to 180-minute classes, students should wait
for 30 minutes. A faculty member may consider their students
absent if they leave their classes earlier than the prescribed
time.
8.3 	A student who is absent is held responsible for all assignments
and for the entire content of the course missed, regardless of
the reason for the absence. A student is encouraged to consult
with the faculty member regarding their current academic
status.
8.4 	A student is considered absent from class if they are not
present within the first third fraction of the scheduled class

-- 96 of 339 --

97
time period. However, such grace period should not exceed
thirty minutes. Thus, a student is considered absent if they
arrive after:
• 	20 minutes for a 60-minute class; or
• 	30 minutes for all classes exceeding 60 minutes (laboratory
or lecture), including non-academic courses such as
LASARE, NSTP, Lasallian Studies, and the SAS series for
undergraduate students.
8.5 	A student is considered late or tardy and receives a half-
absence if they arrive in class during the first third fraction
of the scheduled class time, i.e. if they arrive within the time
schedule described above. A half-absence may be added to
another half-absence to make a full absence recorded against a
student.
8.6 	Students render themselves ineligible for a passing grade in a
given course for the term if they are absent from class for more
than two and a half times the number of class meetings in a
week, such as:
• 	more than 12 1/2 times in a class meeting five times a
week;
• 	more than 10 times for a class meeting four times a week;
• 	more than 7 1/2 times for a class meeting thrice a week;
• 	more than 5 times for a class meeting twice a week;
• 	more than 2 1/2 for a class meeting once a week.
8.6.1 	For the summer term, students render themselves
ineligible for a passing grade in a given course if they
are absent for more than three (3) class meetings.
8.7 	It is the student’s responsibility to keep a record of their
absences, however they may verify such from the faculty
member concerned. Once the allowable number of absences
has been exceeded, the faculty member should verify this with
the student concerned before the student is given a failing
grade due to excess absences. The University has no obligation
to inform parents about the number of absences their children
have incurred.
8.8 	Regulations regarding approved absences are as follows:

-- 97 of 339 --

98
8.8.1 	An approved absence is one authorized by the Dean
of Student Affairs because a student has to attend
an official function or activity. The Approved Absence
Form shall be recommended for approval by the
University official concerned.
8.8.2 	Absences due to physical or mental health conditions
of not more than two weeks are considered approved
absences and should therefore not be counted against
the student’s attendance if it is certified by a medical
doctor or a licensed clinical psychologist using the
professional’s official letterhead and validated by
the Health Services Office Director (for physical
conditions) and the LCIDWell Psychologist (for
mental health conditions). In case of absences due to
prolonged illness, a student or their duly authorized
representative should notify as soon as possible their
College Associate Dean who shall recommend the
appropriate action to be taken.
8.8.2.1 	In order for an absence to be approved,
the student should present their original
medical certificate to the Health Services
Office (HSO) or certificate of mental health
to the clinical psychologist under LCIDWell
for validation. The validated medical/mental
health certificate should be presented to
their College Associate Dean within one (1)
week after returning to the University.
8.8.3 	Students with approved absences should not be
put to a disadvantage. The faculty member should
give special make-up activities, other requirements,
or special considerations, the manner and form
determined by the faculty member following pertinent
school guidelines. The schedule/deadline of such (e.g.,
special make-up activities, other requirements, or
special consideration) shall be in consultation with the
student concerned. Students should communicate the
approved absences to the faculty concerned prior to
the absence by sending the form via email or hard copy.
8.8.4 	For absences due to special cases, the student must
submit supporting documents to the faculty member
who will decide if the absence is excused or not. There
is no need to get an endorsement from the College
Associate Dean. These special cases include:

-- 98 of 339 --

99
8.8.4.1 	Death of an immediate family member;
8.8.4.2 	Emergencies;
8.8.4.3 	Caregiving of sick family members;
8.8.4.4 	Internet issues;
8.8.4.5 	Sickness that does not usually require a
medical certificate;
8.8.4.6 	Delayed submission for course
requirements;
8.8.4.7 	Other special cases not mentioned above.
8.9 	Only students who are enrolled for credit or audit are allowed
to attend classes. Other students who wish to sit in should get
prior permission from the faculty concerned.
8.10 	Undergraduate students on the Dean’s Honors List of the
preceding term are given the privilege of unlimited absences
in academic courses during the current term. As such, these
students should not be given a failing grade due to excess
absences only. The Dean’s List Certificate is prepared by the
Office of the University Registrar and may be claimed at the
Office of the College Associate Dean.
8.11 	The Dean of the College has the final authority to adjudicate all
problems arising because of absences from regularly scheduled
classes.

-- 99 of 339 --

100
SECTION 9: EXAMINATIONS
9.1 	A student who takes an examination should present their ID
when required.
9.2 	During examinations, a student may not leave the assigned
place without the permission of the proctor-in-charge.
9.3 	A student caught cheating, as defined in Sec. 5.3.1.1., shall be
penalized with a grade of 0.0 in the requirement or in the course,
at the discretion of the faculty member, without prejudice to an
administrative sanction.
In cases of alleged cheating, the faculty member should report
the incident to the Student Discipline Formation Office.
9.4 	A student who completes their examination should submit their
paper only to the proctor.
9.5 	Final examination schedules are posted on the DLSU website
(http://calendar.dlsu.edu.ph/). A student with conflicting
examination schedules should apply for a special final
examination from the Office of the University Registrar.
9.6 	If a student requests for a final special examination due to
reasons other than conflict in examination schedule, they
should accomplish a form issued by the Office of the University
Registrar and pay the corresponding fee for each special final
examination.
Conflicts in final exam schedule should be resolved following
the provisions in the Department Operations Manual:
Conflict: 	Priority is given to:
Regular Exam vs. Departmental Exam 	Departmental Exam
Part-time Faculty vs. Full-time Faculty 	Part-time Faculty
Full-time Faculty vs. Full-time Faculty 	Seniority of Rank
9.7 	A University policy of exempting students from final
examinations is implemented under the following guidelines:
9.7.1 	Faculty members are given the authority to exempt a
student from final examination provided the student
has a pre-final grade of at least 3.0 and provided further
that such exemption is not contrary to departmental
policies. This right of the faculty is made a policy of
the University, but the faculty member is under no

-- 100 of 339 --

101
obligation to grant any examination exemption.
9.7.2 	At the beginning of the course, faculty members
should convey to their students the policy on final
examinations and should also stipulate the criteria for
exemption.
9.7.3 	The Gokongwei College of Engineering has adopted a
policy of not allowing exemption in courses that will be
covered in the professional board exams.
9.8 	Students have the right to see their graded quizzes and exams
preferably the latest one (1) week before the next succeeding
examination and their indicative class standing before the final
exams.
9.9 	Students have the right to see their duly corrected final
examination papers, the questionnaires, the answer key, and the
computation of their final grades during the Grade Consultation
Day.
SECTION 10: CREDIT, GRADING AND RETENTION
10.1 	In general, the credit for a course is determined by the number
and length of class meetings in every week of a trimester. Thus,
a class meeting of three hours a week for one trimester gives
three hours of credit. Some undergraduate classes designated
as laboratory may require two to three hours per week to equal
one unit of credit for the term. The number of units is indicated
on the course offerings, the Student Enrollment Record, the
Enrollment Assessment Form, and other documents/materials
related to the course. A full-time undergraduate student is one
who is enrolled in courses with a total of at least 12 academic
units in a term. Students may be enrolled in courses with a total
of less than 12 academic units only if this is specified in their
flowchart or if they are graduating.
10.2 	For regular terms, the maximum academic load for
undergraduate students is 15 units, or the number of units
indicated on the program checklist. A student may enroll more
than the maximum allowable load during a regular term under
the following circumstances:

-- 101 of 339 --

102
10.2.1 	The additional units pertain to or the enrolled courses
includes a PE course; and
10.2.2 	The student is in their last term and the overload does
not exceed 6 units.
10.3 	Grading System
The University adopts the numerical grading system.
TABLE 10.3.1. GRADING SYSTEM
Grade Point 	Description
4.0 	Excellent
3.5 	Superior
3.0 	Very Good
2.5 	Good
2.0 	Satisfactory
1.5 	Fair
1.0 	Passed
0.0 	Failed
9.9 	Deferred (Only for thesis/practicum courses)
10.3.1 	A grade of 9.9 is automatically changed to 0.0 after one
term if the thesis or practicum is not completed or the
faculty failed to apply for a Change of Grade.
10.4 	The following grading system, with the approval of the Provost,
is also used for special courses or non-academic courses.
10.4.1 	PASS: no grade point equivalence
10.4.2 	FAIL: no grade point equivalence
10.5 	Only grades in academic courses are included in the
computation of either the term or cumulative GPA. Grades
for non-academic courses, those with Pass or Fail grades, and
courses with zero credit, are not included in the computation
of the term or cumulative GPA. The term GPA refers to the
weighted average of grades in all academic courses taken in a
given term, whereas the cumulative GPA refers to the weighted
average of grades in all academic courses from the first term in
which the student was enrolled up to the term just finished.
10.6 	Computing your GPA

-- 102 of 339 --

103
The GPA may be obtained using this formula:
• 	Multiply the credit for each course by the
corresponding grade points merited in each course to
get the honor points;
• 	Add all the honor points to get the total; and
• 	Divide the total honor points by the total number of
credit units during the trimester. Indices are computed
to four decimal places rounded off to three decimal
places.
10.7 	Grades for courses taken by a DLSU student cross-enrolled in
another school will not be included in the computation of their
GPA. These courses, together with the corresponding grades,
will be reflected on the Transcript of Records as having been
taken from another school.
10.8 	Credit and Grading for Transferees and Students Taking Second
Degrees
The guidelines for credit and grading for transferees and
students taking second degrees are as follows:
10.8.1 	Courses taken in other schools by transferees may
be credited, provided that the number of units to be
credited does not exceed 20% of the total number of
units required in the program at DLSU.
10.8.2 	Only grades for courses taken at DLSU shall be included
in the computation of the CGPA.
10.9 	Any and all grades obtained in academic courses are included in
the computation of the term and cumulative GPA for as long as
such grades have been obtained at the University, regardless of
the program under which they were obtained.
10.10 	For subjects with lecture and laboratory courses, the following
general policies apply:
10.10.1 The laboratory course is a co-requisite of the
corresponding lecture course, both should be taken
during the same term;
10.10.2 Separate grades are given for the lecture and laboratory
courses unless specified otherwise by the department
concerned;

-- 103 of 339 --

104
10.10.3 If a student drops the lecture course, they must also
drop the laboratory course. However, a student may
drop the laboratory course without dropping the
lecture course unless specified otherwise by the
department concerned;
10.10.4 If the student fails in either the laboratory or lecture
course, they should re-enroll only in the failed subject;
and
10.10.5 The student has to pass both the lecture and laboratory
courses to proceed to the succeeding course(s) unless
specified otherwise by the college concerned.
10.11 	Dropping from courses is covered by the following guidelines:
10.11.1 	A student may drop a course up to the fourth week
of the term. However, a student is not allowed to drop
NSTP without the approval of the College Associate
Dean. Frosh students should enroll in the Student
Affairs Services (SAS) 1000 course during their first
year.
10.11.2 	The University follows the CHED-approved policies on
refunds for dropped courses. Specific guidelines are
published via Help Desk Announcement every term.
10.11.3 	A dropped course will not appear on the records of the
student for the term during which it was dropped.
10.11.4 To be considered as full-time, a student must still be
enrolled in courses with a total of at least twelve (12)
academic units after dropping courses.
10.11.5 A revised EAF reflecting the change on the list of
courses enrolled may be printed by the student.
10.11.6 	Students taking modular degree programs may refer
to the memorandum on dropping of modular courses
found in Appendix R.
10.12 	Students who wish to petition for a change in a term grade
should ask the faculty member(s) concerned to fill out the
necessary forms and comply with the procedure for change
of grade. Applications for change of grade should be given
to the OUR within the deadline published on the academic
calendar. After this deadline, no petition for change of grades
shall be honored and the original one shall be retained unless

-- 104 of 339 --

105
the student has filed a grievance against the faculty concerning
their grades.
10.13 	Students should ensure that the list of courses and sections
indicated on their Student Enrollment Record and their student
portal account is correct. They should also make sure to attend
the correct courses and sections. Students who fail to drop are
considered officially enrolled and are, therefore, covered by all
the provisions applicable to enrolled students.
10.14 	Audit courses are applied for not later than week 2 of the term
and are subject to availability of slots and approval of the
Department Chair and College Associate Dean of the student.
Auditing students are those who want to sit in classes without
any intention of having these courses credited. Their purpose is
to increase their knowledge of the subject matter or acquaint
themselves with classroom procedures. As such, auditing
students:
10.14.1 May attend such classes only when they wish to;
10.14.2 May refuse to take the examinations in such classes;
and
10.14.3 Cannot apply for course crediting.
Enrollment forms and procedures for audit courses
are available at the Office of the University Registrar.
Special audit fees are payable at the Finance and
Accounting Office.
10.15 	Audit courses are not included in the computation of total
number of unit-load for the term for purposes of computing the
GPA and determining qualification for the Dean’s List and the
University Honors List.
10.16 	Within the first week of classes, audit courses may be converted
to credit courses and as such are included in the computation
of the GPA upon the recommendation of the Department Chair,
in consultation with the College Associate Dean and approval by
the OUR, provided that the rules on maximum units enrolled are
not violated.
10.17 	Eligibility to continue academic studies in a degree program is
covered by the following guidelines:
10.17.1 	The following are ineligible to continue studies in the
current degree program:

-- 105 of 339 --

106
For students with ID number 102 and above who are
under the Liberal Arts, Science, Business, Economics,
and Education single degree programs who have
accumulated 24 units of failure; under the Computer
Studies programs who have accumulated 27 units
of failure; and under the LIA-COM, Engineering, COM-
COM and Education double degree programs who have
accumulated 30 units of failure in academic courses at
the end of any trimester.
10.17.2 Students who are ineligible to continue in their current
program may apply to shift to another program. They
must comply with the rules on shifting as stipulated in
section 2.5, and follow the schedule as posted by the
Office of the University Registrar. Students should file
for a leave of absence if they cannot continue in the
current program but are unable to shift on time.
10.17.3 Any failure incurred is automatically added to previous
accumulated units of failure. Only students who have
not reached the maximum allowable accumulated
failures may re-enroll any failed course. If a student
receives a grade of 2.5 or higher in the re-enrolled failed
course, the original failure will not be counted in the
accumulation of the number of units failed. However,
all failures will still be counted for purposes of GPA
computation and will be reflected on the transcript of
records.
10.17.4 Enrollment of students who have become ineligible will
be invalidated automatically.
10.17.5 Students who have accumulated the maximum
number of units of failure set per program but have
less than or equal to 30% of academic units remaining
in their curriculum will be allowed to continue their
studies at the University.
10.17.6 Laguna Campus students with ID 112 and below who
obtain a CGPA of less than 1.000 at any given term after
their third term in the University are not allowed to re-
enroll.
10.18 	Students who have exceeded the number of terms prescribed
in their program flowchart will have to secure permission from
their College Associate Dean to continue enrollment in the
University.

-- 106 of 339 --

107
10.19 	All students are required to attend the NSTP General Orientation
(as mandated by the revised NSTP IRR of 2009) offered during
the first year. Students are required to complete the two (2)
NSTP courses based on their flowchart.
10.20 	Subject to the approval of the Department Chair, the College
Associate Dean, a student may, upon request, be allowed to take
special classes only under any of the conditions below. However,
the University is not compelled to grant the request.
10.20.1 The student is graduating at the end of the term and
the course to be taken as a special class is not offered
for the term;
10.20.2 The student is graduating at the end of the term and
the schedules of the regular sections of the course to
be taken as a special class conflict with other enrolled
courses of the student;
10.20.3 The course to be taken as a special class is indicated in
the program flowchart as a regular offering for the term
but is not offered;
10.20.4 Other cases deemed meritorious by the Department
Chair and the College Associate Dean.
10.21 	Subject to the approval of the Department Chair and the College
Associate Dean, a student may, upon request, be allowed to take
a course equivalent should the course not be offered for the
term and a faculty member is not available to teach the course
as a special class.
SECTION 11: TRIMESTRAL HONORS
11.1 	The University Honors List and the Dean’s Honors List recognize
superior scholastic achievement.
To qualify for the Dean’s Honors List, students should:
11.1.1 	Be enrolled in courses with a total of at least 12
academic units in a term.
11.1.2 	Not have a grade below 2.0 in any academic course;
11.1.3 	Not have a failure in any non-academic course;

-- 107 of 339 --

108
11.1.4 	Not have been found guilty of cheating or academic
dishonesty and/or discipline offenses involving behavior
unbecoming of a Lasallian such as commission of the
act as defined in Section 5.3.1.15 (Section on Student
Discipline) of this Handbook within the term; and
11.1.5 	Have a GPA of at least 3.000 as indicated below:
First Honors 	Term GPA is 3.400 or higher
Second Honors 	Term GPA is between 3.000 to 3.399
11.2 	To qualify for the University Honors List, students should:
11.2.1 	Have completed at least six trimesters of study in the
University;
11.2.2 	Not ever have a grade below 2.0 in any academic course;
11.2.3 	Not ever have a failure in any non-academic course;
11.2.4 	Not ever have been found guilty of cheating or academic
dishonesty and/or major discipline offenses involving
behavior unbecoming of a Lasallian such as commission of
the act as defined in Section 5.3.1.15 (Section on Student
Discipline) of this Handbook within the term; and
11.2.5 	Have a cumulative GPA and term GPA of at least 3.400 at
the end of the trimester.
11.3 	Students who qualify for the Dean’s First and Second Honors Lists
are entitled to receive a Jose Rizal Certificate from the Dean’s
Office. Those who qualify for the University Honors List shall
receive a Jose Rizal Certificate from the Office of the Provost
distributed through the Dean’s Office. Only those who are on the
Dean’s First Honors List and/or the University Honors List for the
entire academic year are recognized during the annual Academic
Recognition Day held during the first term of the next academic
year. Students who are included in the Dean’s First Honors List for
the first six (6) consecutive terms shall be automatically admitted
as candidate-members for the Jose Rizal Honor Society and shall be
recognized during the annual Academic Recognition Day.
11.4 	Students on the Dean’s First and Second Honors List or the

-- 108 of 339 --

109
University Honors List in a particular trimester are entitled to
unlimited absences in academic courses for the succeeding
trimester. Students who will be enrolling only in a practicum
course in the succeeding term may avail of the privilege upon
their return to the University provided they pass the course.
11.5 	In case a student is enrolled in an academic course with a pass
or fail grading system, the number of credit units of such a
course will not be included in the total number of credit units in
computing the trimestral GPA. Such number of units, however,
shall be included in the computation of the total number of
units for purposes of qualifying for trimestral honors.
11.6 	Any request for interpretation or clarification of rules about
honors and academic awards should be forwarded to the Chair
of the University Honors and Awards Council.
11.7 	Students on the Dean’s Honors List and the University Honors
List are given advance enrollment privileges.
SECTION 12: GRADUATION
12.1 	Students may not participate in any activity related to their
Graduation, including the filing of an application to graduate
(ATG), graduation rites, and/or release of academic documents
or records unless all administrative procedures relating to
graduation are completed and disciplinary sanctions, if any are
served.
For clarity, students shall not be allowed to graduate, process
requirements for graduation, participate in their graduation
rites, or secure their diploma, transfer credentials, or
certificate of completion from the time the OULC’s issues
its recommendation for hearing of the complaint as a major
discipline case and until the final resolution of the case, which
includes the completion of the disciplinary sanction, if any.
12.2 	Students who are on their last term of enrollment may qualify
to graduate at the end of the term. As such, they should apply
to graduate following the procedure and the schedule posted
by the Office of the University Registrar. Students need not be
absolutely certain of passing their remaining courses, other
requirements, or both.

-- 109 of 339 --

110
12.3 	Upon graduation, undergraduate students who have remained
on the Dean’s First Honors List and/or the University Honors List
for all terms of enrollment in the University shall be admitted to
full membership in the Jose Rizal Society and receive a special
Jose Rizal Honors Award. The reckoning of the Jose Rizal Honors
shall be at the start of the student’s enrollment in the University.
The student should have graduated within the prescribed
number of terms, excluding the terms on leave of absence or
academic exchange without courses enrolled at the University.
12.4 	Undergraduate students maintaining the required academic
standards will be recommended for graduation honors
of summa cum laude, magna cum laude, cum laude, and
honorable mention.
12.4.1 	To graduate with honors, 80% (75% for students in the
Human Biology program) of the total credits earned
toward the degree must have been earned in residence
at the University.
12.4.2 	The following cumulative GPA requirements apply to
students graduating with honors:
Honors 	GPA
Summa Cum Laude 	3.800
Magna Cum Laude 	3.600
Cum Laude 	3.400
Honorable Mention 	3.200
12.4.4 	Students with a failing grade for any academic or
non-academic course, and/or found guilty of cheating
or academic dishonesty and/or discipline offenses
involving behavior unbecoming of a Lasallian such as
commission of the act as defined on Section 5.3.1.15
(Section on Student Discipline) of this Handbook are
disqualified from graduating with honors.
12.5 	Loyalty awards are given to students who have completed their
schooling at the University, or at any school run by the De La
Salle Brothers, from the first grade of their elementary studies.
Students who officially stopped studying at the University or
any school run by the De La Salle Brothers through the issuance
of a Transfer Credential (Honorable Dismissal) are disqualified
from receiving loyalty awards from the University.

-- 110 of 339 --

111
12.6 	The University Honors and Awards Council may give special
awards to deserving graduating students.
12.7 	Graduates of undergraduate degrees may also be awarded
special honors for excellence in their major fields based on
criteria determined by each academic department.
SECTION 13: DISCONTINUANCE OF STUDIES
13.1 	The following are means of discontinuing studies:
13.1.1 	Issuance of a Certificate of Transfer Credentials
(Honorable Dismissal) by the Office of the University
Registrar as requested by the student if he/she is of
legal age, or his/her legal guardian if the student is still
a minor.
13.1.2 	Expulsion is initiated by the University for
the commission of a major offense(s) specified in this
Handbook (see Section 5.3.1). Expulsion carries the
warning to other educational institutions regarding the
student’s record.
13.1.3 	Academic ineligibility as specified in this Handbook
(see Section 10 on Credit, Grading, and Retention).
Students who have become ineligible need to request
for the issuance of a Certificate of Transfer Credentials
to transfer to another school.
13.2 	Students who discontinue their studies in the University shall
request a Certificate of Transfer Credentials from the Office of
the University Registrar. They shall also secure clearances from
concerned offices of the University. The Certificate of Transfer
Credentials, once issued, is a permanent termination of studies
and may not be cancelled. A second copy of this certificate shall
not be issued at any time.
13.3 	No records shall be released to any student who has unsettled
accounts with theFinance and Accounting Office and/or
pending accountabilities with other University offices.
13.4 	Students who wish to secure a copy of their collegiate records
should file an online request for documents through this link:
https://www.dlsu.edu.ph/offices/registrar/cost-of-studies/
request-for-documents/.

-- 111 of 339 --

112
13.5 	The Student ID is generally invalidated by the system two (2)
weeks into the following term unless there is current enrollment
on record.
13.6 	For meritorious cases, a student may apply to drop from all
courses or not enroll for a specific term(s) by filing a Leave
of Absence (LOA) following the procedures prescribed by the
Office of the University Registrar (OUR). The receipt of the
Application for Leave of Absence form by the OUR shall be
deemed official once approved by the OUR. No Application
for LOA Form will be processed after the midterm except for
special cases endorsed by the College Associate Dean to the
Office of the University Registrar. A student on a valid LOA who
wishes to return to the University should inform the College
Associate Dean at least a week before the start of classes about
their intention to enroll the following term.
13.7 	Any leave of absence, or extension of a leave, not formally
approved by the College Associate Dean and the University
Registrar shall be considered as absence without official leave
(AWOL), in which case the University reserves the right to refuse
re-admission to the student.
13.7.1 	Returning students on AWOL should communicate
with the Office of the University Registrar at least
two (2) weeks before the start of classes to apply for
readmission and enroll for the following term. Returning
students on AWOL shall pay a returnee fee.
13.7.2 	Students applying for LOA within two (2) weeks after
the start of classes should be refunded a portion of the
fees they paid in accordance with Section 7.6.

-- 112 of 339 --

113
SECTION 14: FEES, SCHOLARSHIPS, AND
PAYMENTS
14.1 	All payments should be transacted directly with the (FAO)
Finance and Accounting Office. Tuition and special fees are
posted on the bulletin board of the Office of the University
Registrar (OUR) and on the website prior to and during the
enrollment period.
14.2 	Mode of Paying Tuition and Fees
14.2.1 	Cash, Personal Check, and Manager’s Check
14.2.2 	Credit/Debit Card Payment (onsite)
14.2.2.1 	Any Mastercard or VISA card through
straight payment is acceptable as mode of
payment for tuition and fees. Only one (1)
swipe per card and up to a maximum of two
(2) credit cards are allowed per student.
14.2.2.2 	Payment through credit card may be made
only to the Cashier at the FAO.
14.2.2.3 	The credit card holder or owner is required
to be present during payment to sign the
credit card transaction slips.
14.2.3 	Online through:
14.2.3.1 	DLSU’s Online Payment Gateway (OPG)
using VISA and Mastercard credit cards and
debit cards
14.2.3.2 	Dragonpay
14.2.4 	Online through Mobile Phone/Internet Banking by
account holders of the following banks:
14.2.4.1 	BDO
14.2.4.2 	BPI
3 	Graduate

-- 113 of 339 --

114
14.2.4.3 	Metrobank
14.2.4.4 	Unionbank
14.2.5 	Over-the-counter (OTC) payment at any branch of BDO,
Metrobank, Unionbank indicating the following details:
14.2.5.1 	Name of Bank : Banco De Oro (BDO)
Biller’s Name : De La Salle University – Manila
Institution Code : 1125
14.2.5.2 	Name of Bank : Metrobank (MBTC)
Biller’s Name : De La Salle University, Inc.
Institution Code : 921
14.2.5.3 	Name of Bank : Unionbank (UBP) Biller’s
Name : De La Salle University, Inc.
For more details, please refer to this link:
https://www.dlsu.edu.ph/offices/accounting/official-
payment-channels.
14.3 	Payment Scheme with Sample Computation
14.3.1 	Sample Computation (Non-scholars)
14.3.1.1 	Two (2) Payment Scheme

-- 114 of 339 --

115
14.3.1.2 	Three (3) Payment Scheme
14.3.2 	Sample Computation (Scholars):
14.3.2.1 	Two (2) Payment Scheme

-- 115 of 339 --

116
14.3.3 	Students paying on installment basis who fail to pay
the balance on the stipulated deadline shall be allowed
to complete the remainder of the term. However, such
students shall not be allowed to enroll for the next
trimester and their documents (Transcript of Records,
Certifications, Transfer Credentials, etc.) shall be
withheld until the balance is paid.
14.3.4 	A student who paid on installment basis and, eventually,
discontinues attending classes shall have to pay the
balance of his/her tuition and fees.
Note:
• 	Graduate Students with a total assessment of Php
12,000 and below can avail installment payment
scheme.
• 	Late enrollment fee, installment, and surcharges
are separate assessments.
14.4 	A student who has not paid anything on the stipulated
deadline shall be considered not enrolled. As such, this shall
automatically result in the removal of the student’s name from
the official enrollment list. Students removed from the official
enrollment list shall also be charged an amount equal to 10% of
their assessment, regardless of whether they actually attended
14.3.2.2 	Three (3) Payment Scheme

-- 116 of 339 --

117
classes or not.
14.5 	Students who pay beyond the deadline, whether in full or by
installment, are assessed late enrollment fees.
14.6 	The responsibility of ensuring the check is good rests with the
students. They should verify that their check has been honored
by the bank and, in case it has been dishonored, should settle
their account immediately by paying in cash. Failure to do so
has the same effect as non-payment. As such, the student is
automatically deleted from the official enrollment list.
14.7 	A student who paid within the regular enrollment period
and whose check was subsequently dishonored will incur a
penalty. Additional charges will be imposed for delays in check
replacement.
14.8 	Claims for refund are made according to the Manual of
Regulations for Private Higher Education of the Commission on
Higher Education (2008).
When students register in a school, it is understood that they
are enrolling for the entire academic year for elementary and
secondary courses, and for the entire semester for collegiate
courses. Students who transfer or otherwise withdraw, in
writing, within two (2) weeks after the beginning of classes and
who have already paid the pertinent tuition and other school
fees in full for any length longer than one month, will be charged
a retention fee of 10 percent of the total amount due for the
term if they withdraw within the first week of classes, or a 20
percent retention fee if within the second week of classes,
regardless of whether or not they have actually attended
classes. Students may be charged all the school fees in full if
they withdraw any time after the second week of classes.
14.9 	Students may apply for financial assistance and scholarships at
Office of Admission and Scholarship (OAS).
14.10 	Students under external scholarships are advised to coordinate
with the Finance and Accounting Office regarding payment of
their tuition and fees.
14.11 	All enrolled students are covered by a personal accident
insurance, 24 hours a day, on and off campus, for injuries caused
by accident. For benefits and procedures for claiming, visit the
1911 Insurance Corp. at the Ground Floor of Br. John Hall.

-- 117 of 339 --

118
SECTION 15: ENROLLMENT
15.1 	A full-time student is enrolled for a maximum of twelve (12)
academic units during the term. A part-time student, on the
other hand, may enroll for a maximum of nine (9) units during
the trimester. Students may take an overload upon the approval
of the College Associate Dean.
15.2 	Standard Schedule of Classes
Regular graduate classes have the following standard schedules:
Week nights 6:00 PM to 9:15 PM (meeting once a week)
6:00 PM to 7:30 PM (meeting twice a week)
Saturdays
7:30 AM to 10:45 AM
9:15 AM to 12:30 PM
12:45 PM to 4:00 PM
4:15 PM to 7:30 PM
15.3 	Only courses to be counted towards earning the degree in
the current program may be enrolled for credit. Students who
wish to enroll in courses outside the curriculum for additional
knowledge and the like must do so without credit (audit).
15.4 	A student who cannot enroll in any regular/special class must
enroll for residency via the student portal not later than week
2 of the term. The student on residency is considered a bona
fide student for the term and may avail of University services
(campus entry, library access, insurance, internet access,
medical/dental services) and does not need to apply for re-
admission upon return. However, a student who is not enrolled
in residency or in any regular or special class needs to apply for
returnee status before re- enrollment, subject to an assessment
of a returnee fee.
15.5 	A student is required to attend the SPS5000 which is the
Institutional and College Orientation for New Graduate Students.
If they fail to attend during their first term of enrollment, the
student will be automatically charged of the orientation fee
until he attends the Orientation. Failure to attend the orientation
on their third term will automatically prohibit the student to
take the subjects for the term. (The mandatory requirement
to attend the Institutional Orientation is applicable to graduate
students with ID#109 and above.)

-- 118 of 339 --

119
15.6 	A student with two “incomplete” (INC) grades at the time of
enrollment will not be allowed to enroll.
15.7 	Enrollment is done online through the student portal.
Procedures for enrollment are announced by the Office of the
University Registrar every term.
15.8 	Academic Advising
15.8.1 	Students should check the courses (and their
respective course codes) offered for the following
term. These are available through the student portal.
15.8.2 	Students may discuss the courses they intend to
enroll, including alternative courses, with the Graduate
Program Coordinator of their academic department.
15.8.3 	Only regular courses and residency may be enrolled
online. Students must follow the procedures and
schedule for non-coursework enrollment found in this
site: https://www.dlsu.edu.ph/wp-content/uploads/pdf/
registrar/schedules/enroll_gs.pdf
15.9 	Adjustment
The University adopts an online adjustment system. For the
procedures and schedule of online adjustment, students may
refer to this link:
https://www.dlsu.edu.ph/wp-content/uploads/pdf/registrar/
schedules/enroll_gs.pdf
15.10 	Enrollment in regular courses will not be entertained once
the term has started. Only non-coursework enrollment will be
allowed after the start of class. For procedures and schedules,
students should refer to this link: https://www.dlsu.edu.ph/wp-
content/uploads/pdf/registrar/schedules/enroll_gs.pdf
15.11 	Students should ensure that the list of courses and sections
in their EAF is correct. They should also ensure that they are
attending the correct courses and sections. Only students who
are enrolled for credit or audit are allowed to attend classes.
15.12 	Dropping/Withdrawal
15.12.1 A course may be dropped only up to the end of Week 2
of the term. Dropping of courses is done via the student
portal. Officially-dropped courses will not appear in the

-- 119 of 339 --

120
Transcript of Records. Refunds for dropped courses
comply with the CHED-approved policies governing
refunds, as follows:
- 100 % refund for fully paid, or 0 retention fee for no
payment or installment payment before the start of the
term
- 90% refund for fully paid, or 10% retention fee for no
payment or installment payment until the end of Week
1
- 80% refund for fully paid, or 20% retention fee for no
payment or installment payment until the end of Week
2
- 0% refund for fully paid or 100 % retention fee for no
payment or installment payment within Week 3 to 4
15.12.2 After the dropping period, a student has to apply for
withdrawal if they wish to discontinue attending a
course. A “W” appears in the Transcript of Records. A
student may withdraw from a course from Week 5 to
Week 9 of the term.
15.12.3 Students who fail to drop are considered officially
enrolled and are therefore covered by all the provisions
applicable to enrolled students.
15.13 	Students enrolled in audit courses are entitled to the following:
15.13.1 They may attend such classes only when they wish to;
15.13.2 They may refuse to take the examinations in such
classes; and
15.13.3 They may convert audit classes to regular classes
with credit up to the end of Week 2 of the term, upon
the approval of the academic department and the
University Registrar.
15.14 	A student may cross-enroll in another school only after securing
the written permission of the Associate Dean and the University
Registrar.

-- 120 of 339 --

121
SECTION 16: COMPREHENSIVE EXAMINATIONS
16.1 	As a general rule, passing the Written Comprehensive
Examinations (WCE) is a pre-requisite to thesis or dissertation
writing. Students are allowed to take the WCE after they have
passed all coursework of their program, unless specified
otherwise in their flowchart/checklist.
16.2 	Generally, the WCE in the various programs are scheduled
once each term, although some programs only schedule these
annually. The WCE normally cover four (4) to five (5) areas of the
major content and/or core subjects.
16.3 	Students must follow the guidelines for enrollment in the
WCE found on this site: https://www.dlsu.edu.ph/wp-content/
uploads/pdf/registrar/schedules/enroll_gs.pdf
16.4 	The student is officially informed about the results of the WCE
by the respective departments about three (3) weeks after the
end of the last testing date.
16.5 	Students who fail the WCE may apply for a re-test in the area(s)
where they failed. Students who fail a second time must audit
the courses for which they did not pass the WCE. After auditing,
they may take the WCE for the third time. A student who fails a
third time in any of the areas of the WCE is rendered ineligible to
continue in the program.
16.6 	Some programs may require a separate Oral Comprehensive
Examination (OCE). Students must follow the guidelines for
enrollment in the OCE found on this site: https://www.dlsu.edu.
ph/wp-content/uploads/pdf/registrar/schedules/enroll_gs.pdf
SECTION 17: CREDIT, GRADING, AND RETENTION
17.1 	Each program has a prescribed minimum number of academic
units. The curriculum for the master’s degree usually has
a minimum total of thirty–six (36) units. The total number
of required units for the doctoral programs varies, with the
minimum being thirty (30) units.
17.2 	In general, credit for a course is determined by the number and
length of class meetings per week per trimester. Thus, a class
meeting for three hours a week for one trimester gives three
hours of credit. Some classes designated as laboratory require
two or three hours to equal one trimester hour of credit.

-- 121 of 339 --

122
17.3 	Prompt and regular attendance in all class sessions is required
throughout the term. The following are the rules on student
attendance.
17.3.1 	Students render themselves ineligible for a passing
grade in a given course for the trimester if they are
absent from class for more than two and a half times
the number of class meetings in a week, such as: more
than 12-1/2 times in a class meeting five times a week;
more than 10 times for a class meeting four times a
week; more than 7-1/2 times for a class meeting thrice
a week; more than five times for a class meeting twice
a week; more than 2-1/2 for a class meeting once a
week.
17.3.2 	A student is considered late or tardy and receives a
half absence if he or she arrives in class during the first
third fraction of the scheduled class time but not to
exceed thirty (30) minutes. A student is considered
absent from class if he or she is not present within the
first third fraction of the scheduled class time but not
to exceed thirty minutes. Thus, a student is considered
absent if he or she arrives after: 20 minutes, for a
60-minute class; 30 minutes, for a 90 to 180 minute
class (laboratory or lecture)
17.4 	Members of the faculty are expected to begin their classes
promptly. However, unavoidable circumstances may cause
them to be late for class. In such cases, the following guidelines
are to be observed:
17.4.1 	For a 60-minute class, students should not leave
until after 20 minutes; for 90 to 180–minute classes,
students should wait for 30 minutes. Students may be
marked absent by a professor if they leave their classes
earlier than the prescribed time.
17.5 	The Dean of the college in which the student is enrolled has the
final power to adjudicate all problems arising due to absences
from regularly scheduled classes in the college.
17.5.1 	Before the start of classes, all faculty members must
determine the performance standards and the weight
assigned to each standard in grading that course. The
faculty must disclose to the students his or her grading

-- 122 of 339 --

123
system (i.e. performance standards and respective
weights assigned) at the beginning of the trimester.
17.6 	The University adopts the grading system below for its graduate
programs:
17.6.1 	Diploma/Certificate Programs
Grade Point 	Description
4.0 	Excellent
3.5 	Superior
3.0 	Very Good
2.5 	Good
2.0 	Satisfactory
1.5 	Fair
1.0 	No credit
0.0 	Failed
7.0 	Passed (for Pass/Fail courses)
8.0 	Failed (for Pass/Fail courses)
9.9 	Incomplete/Deferred
A 	Audit
W 	Withdrawn
For the diploma programs, courses for which grades
below 1.5 were obtained should be repeated.
A grade of INC becomes a “W” after (1) term if the
student fails to complete the course. The highest
completion grade that a student may receive is 3.5.
17.6.2 	Masteral Programs
Grade Point 	Description
4.0 	Excellent
3.5 	Superior
3.0 	Very Good
2.5 	Good
2.0 	Satisfactory
1.5 	No credit
1.0 	No credit
0.0 	Failed

-- 123 of 339 --

124
7.0 	Passed (for Pass/Fail courses)
8.0 	Failed (for Pass/Fail courses)
9.9 	Incomplete/Deferred
A 	Audit
W 	Withdrawn
For the Master’s programs, courses for which grades
below 2.0 were obtained should be repeated.
A grade of INC becomes a “W” after one (1) term if
the student fails to complete the course. The highest
completion grade that a student may receive is 3.5.
17.6.3 	Doctoral Programs
Grade Point 	Description
4.0 	Excellent
3.5 	Superior
3.0 	Very Good
2.5 	Good
2.0 	Satisfactory
1.5 	Fair
1.0 	No credit
0.0 	Failed
7.0 	Passed (for Pass/Fail courses)
8.0 	Failed (for Pass/Fail courses)
9.9 	Incomplete/Deferred
A 	Audit
W 	Withdrawn
For the doctoral programs, courses for which grades
below 2.5 were obtained should be repeated.
A grade of INC becomes a “W” after one (1) term if
the student fails to complete the course. The highest
completion grade that a student may receive is 3.5.

-- 124 of 339 --

125
17.6.4 	The Trimestral Grade Point Average (TGPA) refers to
the weighted average of grades in all academic courses
taken in a given trimester, whereas the Cumulative
GPA (CGPA) refers to the weighted average of grades in
all academic courses from the first term in which the
student was enrolled up to the trimester just finished.
17.7 	Only grades in courses taken at De La Salle University shall be
included in the computation of the cumulative GPA. Any and
all grades obtained in academic courses are included in the
computation of the trimester and cumulative GPA for as long
as such grades have been obtained at DLSU, regardless of the
program under which they were obtained and whether they
were credited to the current program or not.
17.8 	The GPA may obtain through the following procedure:
17.8.1 	Multiply the credit for each course by the
corresponding grade points merited in each course
to get the honor points. Units corresponding to
undergraduate pre-requisite/refresher courses, Pass/
Fail courses, and audit courses are not included in the
computation.
17.8.2 	Add all the honor points to get the total; and
17.8.3 	Divide the total honor points by the total number of
credit units during the trimester. Indices are computed
to four decimal places rounded off to three.
17.9 	Credit and grading for transferees are governed by the following
terms and conditions:
17.9.1 	Evaluation of transfer of credits is subject to the
approval of the College Associate Dean, upon the
recommendation of the Chair/Graduate Coordinator of
the academic department.
17.9.2 	A maximum of one-third (1/3) of the total number of
academic units (excluding thesis/dissertation) required
for the degree at DLSU may be accepted as transfer
credits.
17.9.3 	Course taken from another school should be credited
on the first term of studies at DLSU. No other
courses taken from another school may be credited
subsequent to this, unless covered by the issuance

-- 125 of 339 --

126
of a cross-enrollment permit from the Office of the
University Registrar (OUR).
17.9.4 	Courses counted to earn a separate degree, whether at
DLSU or in another school, are not eligible for crediting.
17.10 	The final grades may be viewed online through the student
portal. Faculty will be available for consultation during the Grade
Consultation Day.
17.11 	Students who wish to petition for a change in a term grade
should ask the faculty member(s) concerned to fill out the
necessary forms and comply with the procedure for change of
grade. Applications for change of grade should be submitted
to the OUR within the deadline published on the academic
calendar. After this deadline, no petition for change of
grades shall be honored and the original one shall be retained
unless the student has filed a grievance against the faculty
concerning their grades.
17.12 	The following are the rules governing program residency:
17.12.1 	Program residency refers to the maximum number of
years a student has to complete the program. Program
residency is reckoned from the date of admission to
DLSU.
17.12.2 A student in the master’s program is given a maximum
of eight (8) years to complete the program. A student
in the doctoral program is given a maximum of ten (10)
years to complete the program.
17.12.3 A student who goes beyond the maximum program
residency, but has completed all course work and
passed all comprehensive exams, may be allowed
an extension of a maximum period of three (3) years
and five (5) years for masters and doctoral programs,
respectively. If all coursework and comprehensive
exams have not been completed, no extension is
allowed.
17.12.4 If a student has reached maximum program residency
and was not allowed to extend, or the student was
given an extension but still unable to finish, the student
cannot continue in the program and will have to apply,
through the Office of the Admissions and Scholarships,
to a new and different program with no crediting of
units earned.

-- 126 of 339 --

127
17.12.5 The student is responsible for monitoring the status
of his or her eligibility. No prior notice from DLSU is
needed.
17.12.6 A student who has exceeded the maximum program
residency (as defined in Section 17.12.2) will have
to secure permission from the Associate Dean to
continue enrollment in the University.
17.13 	Based on the results of the admission examination, a student
may be required to take Advanced Technical Reading and
Writing – ENG501M (3 units) and ENG502M (3 units) as pre-
requisite courses to the program, subject to the following:
17.13.1 	A student unable to meet the cut-off for the qualifying
exam is required to enroll ENG501M (3 units) not later
than the second term of enrollment and ENG502M (3
units) not later than the third term of enrollment.
17.13.2 The course ENG501M is a pre-requisite to ENG502M. As
such these courses may not be taken simultaneously.
Moreover, a student may enroll in ENG502M only after
earning credit for ENG501M.
17.13.3 A student required to undergo Advanced Technical
Reading and Writing may be allowed to proceed to
other courses in the program only after earning credit
for ENG501M and ENG502M. However, other courses
may be enrolled simultaneously with ENG501M and
ENG502M.
17.13.4 The courses ENG501M and ENG502M cannot be
waived as a requirement for the completion of the
program.
17.13.5 A student not required to undergo Advanced Technical
Reading and Writing may opt to enroll the same for
audit purposes.
17.13.6 A student who obtains a grade of 3.0 or higher in
ENG501M need not enroll ENG502M.
17.14 	A student who incurs two (2) grades of “0.0” is rendered
ineligible for re-enrollment in the program. A student rendered
ineligible in a program may shift to another program.

-- 127 of 339 --

128
17.15 	A student may shift to another program, subject to the following
guidelines:
17.15.1 	Shifting is transferring from one program to another in
the same level. Thus, a student in a diploma/certificate
program may not shift to a master’s program. In
this case, the student needs to undergo the usual
admission process for entry into the master’s program;
17.15.2 Students may shift a maximum of two (2) times for
the duration of their stay at DLSU;
17.15.3 Students may apply to shift to the same program, in
cases when both an old and a new curriculum exist.
These cases do not count against the maximum
number of allowable shifting;
17.15.4 Student must follow the shifting guidelines found in
the OUR website: https://www.dlsu.edu.ph/offices/
registrar/schedules/.
17.15.5 An application for shifting, if and when approved, is
effective the succeeding term. Results of shifting
application are released before the pre-enrollment
period to allow students to enroll in courses under the
new program.
SECTION 18: THESIS AND DISSERTATION
18.1 	Upon completion of all coursework and other requirements
of the program, a student may enroll in thesis or dissertation
writing. The thesis or dissertation or the equivalent research
work entails an in-depth study and an extensive investigation
of a problem. It must show originality and should contribute to
the existing field of knowledge, preferably in conformity with
institutional goals, thrusts, and objectives, and should manifest
the student’s competence in research.
18.2 	Enrollment in the graduate thesis or dissertation has the
following stages:
18.2.1 	Thesis/Dissertation Writing
18.2.1.1 	The thesis/dissertation writing course must
be enrolled. Students should follow the

-- 128 of 339 --

129
enrollment procedures and schedule found
in this link: https://www.dlsu.edu.ph/wp-
content/uploads/pdf/registrar/schedules/
enroll_gs.pdf.
18.2.1.2 	The thesis writing course for the master’s
program has a total of six (6) units.
The thesis course can be enrolled for a
maximum of nine (9) terms. Students who
go beyond the maximum shall be required
to retake the thesis cycle, that is, start from
Thesis Writing 1.
18.2.1.3 	The assessment for the thesis writing
course has three components: (1)
Tuition; (2) Research Supervision; and (3)
Miscellaneous, scheduled as follows:
Thesis
Writing
Tuition 	Research
Supervision
Miscellaneous
1 	* 	*
2 to 9 	Enrolled
with zero
(0) unit
* 	*
18.2.1.4 	For the doctoral program, the dissertation
writing course has a total of twelve (12)
units. The dissertation writing course
can be enrolled for a maximum of fifteen
(15) terms. Students who go beyond the
maximum shall be required to retake
the dissertation cycle, that is, start from
Dissertation Writing 1.

-- 129 of 339 --

130
18.2.1.5 	The assessment for dissertation writing
course has three components: (1)
Tuition; (2) Research Supervision; and (3)
Miscellaneous, scheduled as follows:
Thesis
Writing
Tuition 	Research
Supervision
Miscellaneous
1 	* 	*
2 	* 	*
3 to 15 	Enrolled
with zero
(0) unit
* 	*
* Term here does not refer to the trimester of the
Academic year, but the instance of enrollment of the
student.
18.2.2 	Proposal Defense
18.2.2.1 	Only if and when the adviser has approved
the defense of the thesis/dissertation
should the student enroll for proposal
defense. For enrollment procedures and
schedules, students should refer to this
link: https://www.dlsu.edu.ph/wp-content/
uploads/pdf/registrar/schedules/enroll_
gs.pdf.
18.2.2.2 	To apply for proposal defense of thesis/
dissertation, the student must submit in
quadruplicate the accomplished Application
for Thesis/Dissertation Defense (Form No.
E-22). This is available at the academic
department, the Office of the Vice dean or
at the Front Desk of the OUR. A copy may be
downloaded from http:/www.dlsu.edu.ph/
offices/ registrar/pdf.
18.2.2.3 	A student needs to be enrolled in the thesis/
dissertation writing course during the term
to be allowed to apply for thesis/dissertation
proposal defense.
18.2.2.4 	Payment for thesis/dissertation defense
may not be carried over to another trimester

-- 130 of 339 --

131
even if no defense transpired, except when
the department is unable to convene a panel
for the current term.
18.2.2.5 	If revisions in the thesis/dissertation are
required by the proposal defense panel, the
revised version should be submitted to the
members of the proposal defense panel,
through the adviser, not later than the end of
three (3) terms from the term of defense.
18.2.2.6 	A student unable to submit the revised
thesis/dissertation within the allotted period
shall be deemed to have failed the proposal
defense. As such, the student needs to
repeat the entire thesis/dissertation cycle.
18.2.3 	Final Defense
18.2.3.1 	Only students who have successfully
completed the Proposal Defense are
qualified to apply for the Final Defense.
For enrollment procedures and schedules,
students should refer to this link: https://
www.dlsu.edu.ph/wp-content/uploads/pdf/
registrar/schedules/enroll_gs.pdf.
18.2.3.2 	A student may have the Proposal Defense
and Final Defense within the same term,
provided that the deadlines for application
and submission of requirements are
observed.
18.2.3.3 	If revisions in the thesis/dissertation are
required by the final defense panel, the
revised version should be submitted to the
members of the final defense panel, through
the adviser, not later than the end of three
(3) terms from the term of defense or six (6)
terms for programs under the Colleges of
Engineering, Science, and Computer Studies.
18.2.3.4 	A student unable to submit the revised
thesis/dissertation within the allotted
period shall be deemed to have failed the
final defense. As such, the student needs to
repeat the entire thesis/dissertation cycle.

-- 131 of 339 --

132
18.2.4 	Submission of Requirements
Upon successful completion of the Final Defense and
upon revision (if necessary) of the thesis/dissertation,
the student should submit all requirements for
graduation indicated in these guidelines: https://www.
dlsu.edu.ph/offices/registrar/academic-calendar/
graduation/
18.3 	The composition of the defense panel is determined after
consultations among the Department Chair/Graduate Program
Coordinator, faculty adviser and the student. The panel for the
master’s level consists of a chair and two (2) members. For
the doctoral level, the panel consists of a chair and four (4)
members.
18.3.1 	As far as practicable, faculty members from schools
other than DLSU and experts in the field should be
invited to sit in the panel. The panel chair, however,
must come from DLSU.
Each member of the panel must be provided with a
copy of the thesis/ dissertation at least two (2) weeks
before the defense date.
18.3.2 	The same members, or at least a majority of the
proposal defense panel, shall compose the final
defense panel.
18.3.3 	To officially convene the panel, at least two (2) of the
three members at the master’s level and four of the five
at the doctoral level, should be present provided the
absentee member has submitted written comments.
The mentor and the chair should be present at both
proposal and final defenses.
18.4 	To give recognition to outstanding research projects and upon
the recommendation of the chair of the defense panel to the
department, a student may be granted an award for outstanding
thesis/dissertation, subject to the following criteria:
18.4.1 	Significant contribution to the development or
refinement of knowledge improvement of practice;
18.4.2 	Originality and creativity;

-- 132 of 339 --

133
18.4.3 	Practicability in the discipline where it applies; the
extent to which the study reflects and responds to
practical problems;
18.4.4 	Identification of a strong theoretical framework within
which the problem is developed; and
18.4.5 	Clarity and coherence of presentation and accuracy of
language.
SECTION 19: GRADUATION
19.1 	Students who have successfully completed the required
number of units and all the courses required in their curricula
are eligible to apply for graduation. In applying to graduate, the
student needs to submit the requirements in Section 19.3.4 of
this Handbook and undergo other procedures set by the Office
of the University Registrar (OUR), such as toga measurement for
students attending the Commencement Exercises. The OUR will
post announcements regarding the procedures and deadlines
for the application to graduate.
19.2 	Students may not participate in any commencement
activity unless all curricular requirements are completed and
administrative sanctions (refer to Sec. 12.1), if any, are served.
19.3 	Students in the diploma/certificate programs need to submit
the Program Completion Form (Form No. S01A) at the end
of their programs to receive their Transcript of Records and
Certificate.
19.4 	The official date of graduation or completion is the last day of
the term when all the requirements of the program have been
satisfied and submitted to the OUR.

-- 133 of 339 --

134
SECTION 20: DISCONTINUANCE OF STUDIES
20.1 	The following are ordinary means of discontinuing studies:
20.1.1 	A certificate of Transfer Credential (Honorable
Dismissal) issued by the University Registrar for
reasonable cause on petition by the student, if he/she
is of legal age, or on his/her behalf by a legal guardian, if
the former is still a minor.
20.1.2 	Expulsion, as initiated by the University for the
commission of a major offense(s) specified on this
Handbook. Expulsion carries the warning that other
educational institutions should not accept the person
expelled.
20.2 	A certificate of Transfer Credential (Honorable Dismissal)
should be requested from the Office of the University Registrar
(OUR) when circumstances render such a step necessary. This
certificate should be requested for as soon as a student decides
to discontinue his or her studies at the University.
20.3 	The Transcript of Records is a complete record of a student’s
work in the University. It may be official (with school seal and
signature of the University Registrar) or unofficial and may be
requested at the OUR.
20.3.1 	Transcript of Records intended to transfer credits of a
student or graduate to another institution of learning
is official and may not be hand-carried, but is sent
directly from the OUR to the school to which the
student or graduate wishes to transfer credits. Such
Transcript of Records may only be sent by the OUR to
another school if and when the student or graduate
has filed for Transfer Credential and upon receipt of the
request from the requesting school.
20.3.2 	Transcript of Records intended for evaluation by a
school for possible admission, whether for continuance
of studies or for further studies, should be official. It
shall be marked “For Evaluation Purposes Only” and
may be hand-carried.

-- 134 of 339 --

135
20.3.3 	Transcript of Records intended for employment
purposes whether complete (graduate) or not, should
be official. It shall be marked “For Employment
Purposes Only” and may be hand-carried.
20.3.4 	Transcript of Records intended for other purposes,
whether complete (graduate) or not, may be unofficial,
without any markings, and may be hand-carried.
20.4 	For meritorious cases, a student may apply to drop from all
courses or not enroll for a specific term(s) by filing a Leave
of Absence (LOA) following the procedures prescribed by the
Office of the University Registrar.

-- 135 of 339 --

136
SECTION 21: STUDENT ACTIVITIES
The University recognizes the importance of developing creative and
responsible student leaders who will eventually assume the mantle
of leadership on their chosen fields of endeavor. For this purpose, the
University ensures the democratic and autonomous existence of the
University Student Government (USG) and the Graduate Student Council
(GSC) to encourage the formation of student groups that pursue clearly
established common objectives and the initiation of student-directed
endeavors set-up along social, cultural, religious, literary, educational, or
recreational lines.
21.1 	General Policies
The University Student Government (USG) and the Graduate
Student Council (GSC) as well as the establishment and
operations of student organizations in the University are
governed by the rules and regulations concerning student
organizations and their activities within school campuses.
Specific policies and processes on approval of activities can be
found at the Student Activities Manual (SAM) for compliance
of all University Student Government (USG), Graduate Student
Council (GSC) units, recognized student organizations, and
groups.
21.2 	Authority to Operate
Students desiring to establish, join and participate in student
organizations on campus may do so as a right, subject only
to reasonable regulations promulgated by the University
through the Dean of Student Affairs (DSA), consistent with the
Students’ Charter and other laws and regulations, in return for
recognition by, affiliation with, and support from the DSA. It is
also understood that organizations or publications of students
that exist or operate outside the system of school recognition
shall continue to be governed by law.
4 	Student Activities

-- 136 of 339 --

137
21.3 	Forming a Student Organization
21.3.1 	Role of the Aspiring Organizations Accreditation
Committee (AOAC)
The primary role of the AOAC is to facilitate the
recognition of student-initiated aspiring organizations
into the University system. It is likewise tasked to
make policies affecting the recognition of aspiring
organizations of the different Lasallian Mission (LM)
offices. This does not include LM student volunteer
groups.
21.3.2 	The AOAC shall:
21.3.2.1 	Screen the application of aspiring
organizations under the LM offices;
21.3.2.2 	Prepare aspiring organizations on the
rudiments of operating a recognized student
organization;
21.3.2.3 	Facilitate the admission of successful
aspirants to the different Lasallian Mission
offices;
21.3.2.4 	Recommend and make policies regarding
aspiring organizations.
21.3.3 	The AOAC shall be composed of the following:
21.3.3.1 	For undergraduate student organizations,
AOAC will be composed of:
• 	Associate Dean of Student Affairs as
Chair;
• 	Director of the concerned LM office;
• 	A representative from the respective
Council of Leaders under the concerned
LM office or the Council of Student
Organization (CSO) Chairperson;
• 	University Student Government (USG)
Vice President for Internal Affairs
• 	A representative from any LM Volunteer
group (outside the concerned LM office)

-- 137 of 339 --

138
21.3.3.2 	For graduate student organizations:
• 	Dean of Student Affairs or Director of
Student LIFE;
• 	College Associate Dean or Assistant Dean/
Graduate Studies Director
• 	Graduate Student Council President or
equivalent; and
• 	Coordinator for Graduate Student
Programs and Services of Student LIFE
21.3.4 	General Policies of the AOAC
21.3.4.1 	All aspiring organizations shall abide by the
policies of the University.
21.3.4.2 	All venue reservations of aspiring
organizations during their trial period
shall be under the Council of Student
Organizations or the respective Council of
Leaders of the concerned LM office.
21.3.4.3 	The official standard to be used in the
accreditation of organizations for the
following academic year is the one used by
the CSO.
21.3.4.4 	Any violation of the aspiring organization on
the existing policies of the University will be
counted against their application.
21.3.4.5 	All decisions related to the accreditation
process must have the concurrent approval
of all members of the AOAC;
21.3.4.6 	The provisions stipulated on the AOAC
Manual of Operations shall be binding to all
members of the AOAC.
21.3.4.7 	The AOAC Manual of Operations shall be
subject to review once every three years,
synchronized with the student handbook
revision year. Substantive changes made
should be published in any University
student publications at the beginning of its

-- 138 of 339 --

139
implementation;
21.3.4.8 	A disqualified aspiring organization,
depending on the reason for disqualification,
will not be allowed to apply again.
21.3.4.9 	A disqualified aspiring organization may be
allowed to reapply when disqualified due to
the following:
21.3.4.9.1 	A disqualified aspiring organization
may be allowed to reapply when
disqualified due to the following:
21.3.4.9.2 	Incomplete documents
22.3.4.9.3 	Failure to attend any of the scheduled
presentations for accreditation
21.3.4.9.4 	Executive Board officers with less
than two (2) years of residency
21.3.4.9.5 	Overlap of objectives with existing
organizations
21.3.4.10 	The number of aspiring organizations to
be admitted per year under each Lasallian
Mission Office shall not be more than five
(5);
21.3.4.11 	Acceptance and rejection of application
shall depend on the policies stated in the
AOAC Manual of Operations, and shall be
made consistent to the Students’ Charter
and the Student Handbook;
21.3.4.12 	The decision to recognize the organization
shall be based on a majority vote.
21.3.4.13 	The aspiring organizations will receive an
official mail from the AOAC not later than 2
weeks after the presentation.
21.3.4.14 	Appeal of any nature should be submitted to
the Dean of Student Affairs, within 30 days
after the release of the results for resolution.
21.3.5 	Specific Policies Regarding Applying Organizations

-- 139 of 339 --

140
21.3.5.1 	As a general policy, AOAC will only consider
aspiring organizations that contribute to
the University’s goal of establishing an
integrated community of persons, learners,
scholars, and citizens. Thus, any applicant-
organization whose goals, objectives and/
or activities (proposed or implemented)
seem to promote some form of regionalism,
exclusivity, prejudice, or malice toward
any sector of the University will be denied
recognition.
21.3.5.2 	Aspiring organizations whose membership
qualifications or activities are rigid and
unreasonable and demand the use of
physical harm or violence will be denied
recognition.
21.3.5.3 	Because funds, facilities, and other
resources in the University are limited, AOAC
will not recognize an applicant organization:
21.3.5.3.1 	Whose general nature,
objectives and/or activities
overlap with those of existing
student organizations; and
21.3.5.3.2 	That may be integrated into the
functions of any existing student
group or academic sector.
21.3.5.4 	All accepted applicant-organizations
will undergo a three-month or one-
term observation/trial period to prepare
themselves with the rudiments of operating
a recognized student organization and help
AOAC verify its nature. After the trial period,
any of the two (2) conditions will apply:
21.3.5.4.1 	The organization is accepted
under a three-term probationary
status under the LM office
concerned, or;
21.3.5.4.2 	The organization’s application
is denied.

-- 140 of 339 --

141
21.3.5.5 	The Executive Board of Officers of all
applicant organizations must have at
least two (2) years left from the time of
application.
21.3.5.6 	Any aspiring organization whose nature can
be classified under any of the DLSU Offices
will be referred to the Director of that
Office. The decision to accept or grant the
application will come from the Director of
the office concerned;
21.3.5.7 	An organization must get a grade point
average of at least 80% in the accreditation
to qualify for full accreditation. An AOAC
accreditation rating sheet shall be provided
for the reference of the different LM Offices.
21.3.6 	Procedure on Forming a Student Organization
21.3.6.1 	Application and Filing Any group of fifteen
(15) students may apply to the AOAC to
form a student organization. The application
may be filed with the AOAC on the first
trimester of the current academic year but
not later than the 10th week of the first
trimester.
21.3.6.2 	Three copies of the following documents
should be presented at the time the
application is filed:
21.3.6.2.1 	A formal letter of application
addressed to the AOAC;
21.3.6.2.2 	Constitution and By-laws;
21.3.6.2.3 	List of interim board of officers,
with their names, respective
positions, majors, year levels,
addresses, telephone numbers,
birthdays, specimen signatures
and ID numbers;
21.3.6.2.4 	Names, year levels, majors,
ID numbers and signatures of
at least fifteen (15) founding

-- 141 of 339 --

142
members, inclusive of officers;
21.3.6.2.5 	A master plan of activities good
for one academic year, which
includes the goals, objectives,
brief description and budget
breakdown per activity;
21.3.6.2.6 	A Table of Organization or
Organizational Structure;
21.3.6.2.7 	Budget Proposal for one year;
21.3.6.2.8 	Certification from the Student
Discipline Formation Office
stating that the founders are
bona fide students of DLSU
together with the students’
existing discipline records; and
photocopy of government-
issued ID and EAF of members
on the term of application as
proof that members are bona
fide students of DLSU.
21.3.6.2.9 	Name of faculty adviser/s
or adult formator/s with a list
of credentials related to the
aspiring organization and the
adviser’s or adult formator/s’
letter of acceptance addressed
to the Director of the concerned
LM Office.
21.3.6.3 	Other Requirements
The constitution and by-laws as well as the
proposed activities of the applicants should
be in accordance with the institutional
policies and other rules and directives of
Student Affairs (SA), University Student
Government (USG), Council of Student
Organizations (CSO), or Graduate Student
Council (GSC). It should not conflict or
overlap with those of existing organizations.
In addition, the officers and founding
members should be of good moral
character.

-- 142 of 339 --

143
21.3.6.4 	Approval of Application
21.3.6.4.1 	The applicant should be
informed of the approval of its
application within two months
from the start of the second
term. No student organization
shall be allowed to function
without the prior approval
required.
21.3.6.4.2 	If the membership of a
probationary organization is less
than 30 members, the AOAC
shall deliberate on a case-to-
case basis on the status of
recognition of the organization.
21.4 	Monitoring of Organizational Activities
21.4.1 	It shall be the responsibility of Director of Student
LIFE, in cooperation with and through the USG, CSO,
and GSC, to supervise and regulate the operation and
activities of all USG/GSC units and duly recognized
student organizations. They should provide needed
guidance for the maximum use of the organization’s
human potentials and resources and efforts toward the
attainment of goals and objectives of the organization
as envisioned in their approved constitution and
by-laws. All policies on supervision shall be based on
official guidelines of the respective Student Affairs
office.
21.5 	Specific Policies Governing Student Organizations
21.5.1 	On Constitution and By-Laws
The USG, GSC and each recognized student
organization should have a constitution and by-laws
that conform to institutional requirements.
21.5.2 	On Certificate of Proclamation and Recognition
21.5.2.1 	For undergraduate organizations, the
signatories of the certificate of recognition
should include the following: DSA, Director
of Student LIFE, USG VP-Internals, and CSO

-- 143 of 339 --

144
Chairperson. For graduate organizations, the
signatories are DSA, Director of Student LIFE,
and GSC President.
21.5.2.1.1 	Any University Student
Government (USG) or Graduate
Student Council (GSC) unit
and/or recognized student
organization that violates
its statement of purpose or
constitution or fails to comply
with University policies should be
investigated and decided upon
by the Revocation Committee,
composed of the DSA, Director
of Student LIFE, USG VP-Internals
or GSC President, and CSO
Chairperson.
21.5.3 	On Probation
21.5.3.1 	All newly recognized student organizations
shall be placed on a three-trimester
probationary status. If necessary, the
probationary period may be extended for
another term for further evaluation.
21.5.3.2 	All student organizations under probationary
status shall abide by all the rules, regulations
and requirements of the University. They
are entitled to all rights and privileges of
a duly recognized student organization.
They should pass the entire probationary
period to qualify for full accreditation or
recognition.
21.5.4 	On Accreditation
21.5.4.1 	For undergraduate student organizations,
an Accreditation Committee, composed
of representatives from Student LIFE
and the Executive Board of the CSO, shall
announce an annual re-accreditation
of all student organizations. The criteria
on re-accreditation may be obtained
from CSO. Any student organization that

-- 144 of 339 --

145
fails the evaluation of the Accreditation
Committee for two (2) consecutive years
shall be automatically considered defunct.
Recognized special groups/organizations
shall also undergo an annual accreditation
by an Accreditation Committee composed
of representatives from the Student Affairs
Office, Office of Student LIFE, and the
Executive Board of USG or CSO. Specific
guidelines and criteria can be found in the
Student Activities Manual.
21.5.4.2 	All recognized graduate student
organizations shall be under re-accreditation
to be granted formal accreditation for the
current academic year. The organizations
will be evaluated using the “Professional
Graduate Student Organizations
Accreditation Model.”
21.5.5 	On Membership - All officially enrolled students shall be
qualified for membership in any student organization.
21.5.6 	On Officership - Qualified students are encouraged
to run for elected positions in the USG/GSC. Also,
members of student organizations are encouraged to
become officers of their respective organizations. The
following guidelines are to be followed:
21.5.6.1 	All bona fide students who fulfill the
following requirements may file a certificate
of candidacy for USG General Elections
/ GSC Elections. Members of student
organizations who fulfill the following
requirements are allowed to become
officers:
21.5.6.1.1 	For undergraduate
organizations and USG, they
should be full-time students
carrying a minimum academic
load of 12 units, with the
exception of graduating students
who may have fewer than 12

-- 145 of 339 --

146
units left in their final term or as
specified on their curriculum.
21.5.6.1.2 	For graduate organizations and
GSC, they should be enrolled in
at least one academic course
(including non-coursework
requirements) to be eligible for
the post.
21.5.6.1.3 	They should not be under any
major academic or disciplinary
offense.
21.5.6.1.4 	For undergraduate students,
they should maintain a
cumulative grade point
average of at least 1.750 or any
other higher CGPA as may be
stipulated in the organization’s
constitution and bylaws.
21.5.6.1.5 	For graduate students, they
should maintain a cumulative
grade point average of at least
2.000 or any other higher CGPA
as may be stipulated in the
organization’s constitution and
bylaws.
21.5.6.2 	All officers of organizations are expected
to serve the full three trimesters of their
office. Students who cannot complete their
service, except in meritorious cases as
ruled upon by the LA for the USG, the CSO
Executive Board for student organizations
under CSO, or those cited in the GSC
Constitution will not be allowed.
21.5.6.3 	Any student may occupy an elected
position (e.g., USG Executive Board member,
College President, Legislative Assembly
Representative, Batch Representative, CSO
Executive Board member, member of the
executive board of any of CSO organization,
GSC Officer, GSO Executive Board Member)
in only one organization.

-- 146 of 339 --

147
21.5.6.4 	The foregoing requirements shall be
monitored, on a per-term basis, by the
respective administrative offices by
requiring USG/GSC units and student
organizations to submit the names
of elected and appointed officers for
verification of records not later than
two weeks from the start of each term.
Concerned officers are deemed to have
waived their right to confidentiality with
regards to their CGPA and discipline records.
Failure to maintain the requirements while
serving as an officer in the USG/GSC unit
and/or accredited student organization
means that the student has to vacate his/
her designated post in the organization.
21.5.7 	On Grievance
21.5.7.1 	In case of conflict within an undergraduate
organization, or between two or more
organizations, and when no resolution to the
issue at hand may be reached, the Executive
Board (EB) of the CSO, the USG, or both may
intervene and render a decision deemed
appropriate after consultation with the
Office of Student LIFE.
21.5.7.2 	For conflict within a graduate organization,
or between two or more organizations, and
when no resolution to the issue at hand may
be reached, the Office of Student LIFE shall
intervene.
21.5.8 	On Overnight and Off-campus Activities
Overnight and Off-campus activities of student
organizations pertain to activities conducted and/or
held out of the campus and/or overnight (in or outside
the campus). A University authorized off-campus
activity involving student organizations must have the
approval or recommendation of the Office of Student
LIFE or by the Associate Dean of the College if the
activity is an academic requirement.
21.5.8.1 	Undergraduate students participating in

-- 147 of 339 --

148
any off-campus activities must submit
a notarized consent form signed by their
parent/ guardian before they will be allowed
to participate in the activity.
21.5.8.2 	Graduate students participating in any off-
campus activities must submit a notarized
graduate student consent form before they
will be allowed to participate in the activity.
21.5.8.3 	A faculty adviser or authorized faculty
representative must be present in any off-
campus activity.
21.5.8.4 	Specific guidelines set by the University on
overnight and off-campus activities must be
observed by all student organizations.
21.5.9 	Approval of Activities
All co-curricular and extra-curricular activities
sponsored by any duly recognized student organization
shall be under the supervision of the Office of Student
LIFE. The approval process of said activities shall be
handled by this office.
21.5.10 On Activity Ban
A ban on all student activities and publicity, except
for tutorials, reviewer distributions, grievance booths,
and meetings of officers, shall be enforced seven (7)
calendar days before the start of the final examinations
week until the last day of finals. Proposals submitted
prior to the ban shall be accommodated.
21.5.11 	On Term Break Activities
Only organizational planning (e.g. teambuilding
activities, meetings, distribution of newsletters,
leadership seminars for organization officers) and
development activities shall be allowed during the term
breaks.
21.5.12 On Selling, Solicitations, and Sponsorships
All student organizations and groups are to
support DLSU’s policy on non-commercialization,

-- 148 of 339 --

149
which discourages selling in campus and forging
inappropriate partnerships with external companies
and sponsors. Companies of ill-repute, and whose
products promote non-Lasallian and negative values
(e.g., cigarettes, contraceptives, liquor and gambling)
will not be allowed as sponsors. The Office of Student
LIFE has the option to reject a sponsor or donor on this
ground. Selling is not allowed except for those provided
in the Student Activities Manual. The University
Guidelines on the Conduct of Bazaars on Campus
shall govern all bazaars initiated by the student
organizations or groups, including USG and GSC.
21.5.13 On Communication Protocols
All communications such as invitations, requests,
inquiries, and the like, sent by student organizations
to offices inside the University, shall be noted by
the director or the supervising office. External
communications and those addressed to the members
of the University administration (e.g. President,
Chancellor, Vice Chancellors, Vice Presidents, Associate
Vice Chancellors, Deans, Associate Deans) shall also be
noted by the Dean of Student Affairs.
21.5.14 Guidelines for Specific Activities
A specific guide on activities are found in the Student
Activities Manual. All student organizations and groups
are expected to have read, understood, and complied
with the provisions set therein.
21.5.14.1 	Linkages
A student organization may have tie-
up activities with other organizations
in and outside the university. Additional
requirement for activity approval will include
a draft Memorandum of Agreement (MOA)
containing all the accountabilities of each of
the parties involved in the activity. External
agreements should be cleared by the Office
of the University Legal Counsel.

-- 149 of 339 --

150
21.5.14.2 	Seminars/Talks/Fora
Any duly recognized student organization
may organize seminars/talks/fora that would
contribute to the development of students
in the academic and non-academic areas.
If speakers and/or facilitators are from
external public partners, the sponsoring
organization should closely work with the
Office of Student LIFE. Consultations must
be done with administration on topics
that may be detrimental to the University
policies and principles through the signed
endorsement from the department chair or
college’s associate dean.
21.5.14.3 	Contests/Competition
Student organizations are encouraged to
join and organize contests and competitions
within the University or by outside entities
or groups. For academic contests/
competitions, the organizers within campus
or participants in off-campus contests must
secure the endorsement of the chair of the
department or the associate dean of the
college.
21.5.14.4 	Fund-Raising Activities
The University acknowledges the need
for student organizations to source their
funds on top of the operating budget
allocated for them. They are encouraged to
organize fundraising activities that shall give
favorable returns to the organization. The
incidence of expense beyond the financial
capacity of the organizations to pay is
strictly discouraged. Specific guidelines of
the University on fund raising activities must
be observed by all organizations.
21.5.14.5 	Purchases and Contracts
All student organizations shall abide by the
terms and requirements set by the Finance
and Accounting Office on purchases,
contracts, and payments. They shall also
abide by the policies and procedures set by

-- 150 of 339 --

151
the university on procurement of services
and materials.
21.5.15 Documentation and Financial Reports
All government/council units and student organizations
must furnish the Office of Student LIFE copies of
their respective organization’s term-end and year-end
reports. A copy of the organization’s financial condition
must be submitted to the Office of Student LIFE at the
end of each term.
21.6 	Faculty Adviser
The University believes in the importance of assigning
and supporting its student organizations in their co-and
extracurricular endeavors. It strongly encourages other
members of the academic community, specially its faculty
members, to take an active role in the total development of
these students by serving as advisers of student organizations.
In doing so, they will be able to provide professional and moral
guidance as well as facilitate the students’ personal growth
and maturity. The interaction between the faculty advisers and
the student leaders will also create an atmosphere of mutual
respect and appreciation of each other’s role in the community.
Each student organization shall have no more than three
faculty advisers. The DSA appoints the faculty adviser, upon
the recommendation of the Associate Dean from the list of
faculty nominated by the concerned organization. The term of
appointment of faculty members is for one academic year and
may be renewed. If the faculty adviser withdraws anytime his/
her terms expire, a new faculty adviser should be recommended
by the organization to the DSA to serve the remaining term after
which he/she may be re-appointed.
The selection of a faculty adviser shall be based on the following
qualifications:
21.6.1 	He/she should be full-time/part-time faculty member
of the University. Exceptions may be allowed on a case-
to-case basis;
21.6.2 	For professional organizations, he/she should be
involved in the discipline related to the organization;

-- 151 of 339 --

152
21.6.3 	For non-professional organizations, the adviser should
be knowledgeable in the particular field in which the
organization is involved; and
21.6.4 	His/her acceptance of the position of adviser should be
done in writing by signing the letter of acceptance. The
letter will be filed with the Office of Student LIFE.
21.6.5 	Office of Student LIFE is the official adviser of the
University Student Government (USG), Council of
Student Organizations (CSO), Graduate Student
Council’s Council of Presidents, and accredited Special
Groups.

-- 152 of 339 --

153
4 	Appendices
APPENDIX A
GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF THE PHILIPPINE
LASALLIAN FAMILY
These three documents, the Foundational Principles of Lasallian
Formation, the Principles of Lasallian Education in the Philippines,
and the Principles of Lasallian Social Development, are products of an
ongoing effort to define and clarify the nature of the Lasallian presence
and mission in the country today. They are the direct result of resolutions
passed during the First Lasallian Family Convocation of 2003 calling for
the strengthening of the sense of Lasallian identity and the deepening of
the Lasallian charism among individuals and institutions in the Philippine
District. Each of these statements builds on three values which are
fundamental to Lasallian identity: the spirit of faith, zeal for service, and
communion in mission. The intention of each of the three documents
is to articulate the commitments that flow from these values in relation
to the training and formation of Lasallian associates and partners, the
conduct of the Lasallian educational mission in schools and the socio-
political involvement of the Lasallian Family.
The preamble of the Foundational Principles of Lasallian Formation
articulates the core values of Lasallian identity. In this sense, it is the
“heart” of the three documents. The values of faith, zeal for service,
and communion, taken together as dimensions of one spirit, capture
an important dynamism that goes back to the time of the Founder and
his first associates. It is this same dynamism that has given rise to the
countless apostolic initiatives and innovations that have since grown
out of St. John Baptist de La Salle’s initial response to the call of God
discerned in the needs of poor and abandoned youth. Taken as one spirit,
the spirit of faith, zeal and communion provide a paradigm for living the
Lasallian story today.
These documents are intended to stimulate apostolic creativity, not to
restrict it. The intention of the members of the three committees tasked
with drawing up these documents was to provide a starting point for
discernment regarding the way the Lasallian charism and mission are to
be incarnated in Philippine society today. They are intended to provide

-- 153 of 339 --

154
principles and parameters rather than specific answers and solutions. It
is the task of individuals and institutions using these documents to find
ways in which to develop their own contextualized way of living out the
Lasallian story in creative fidelity to the principles articulated herein.
FOUNDATIONAL PRINCIPLES OF LASALLIAN FORMATION
Preamble
“As he became aware, by God’s grace, of the human and spiritual
distress of the ‘children of the artisans and the poor,’ John
Baptist de La Salle devoted himself to forming schoolmasters
totally dedicated to teaching and to Christian education.
He brought these teachers together in a community and
subsequently founded with them the Institute of the Brothers of
the Christian Schools.” (R 1.1)
In creative fidelity to our Founder’s inspiration, we, the Lasallian
formators in the Philippines, commit ourselves to assuring the
vitality and continuity of the Founder’s mission by providing
a genuine Lasallian formation to all members of the Lasallian
Family in the Philippines.
Believing in a God of goodness and compassion who wills the
integral liberation and salvation of all, we as Lasallian formators
commit ourselves to educating and forming persons of faith
and zeal who will make the saving compassion of God a living
and effective reality in the lives of men and women today,
especially those who are poor and vulnerable in society.
We believe that the vocation of an authentic Lasallian is
essentially a free and willing collaboration with God in the work
of building truly human communities that reflect the values of
God’s kingdom as expressed in the Gospel. Thus, the process
of Lasallian formation is about enabling persons to acquire the
vision, values, attitudes and practices that support collaboration
with God’s creative and redemptive action in the world.
In the Lasallian tradition, there are three constitutive elements
that enable this participation. These elements, taken together as
one dynamic unity, provide a way of integrating and expressing
every Lasallian’s vocation.

-- 154 of 339 --

155
The Spirit of Faith
The spirit of faith flows from a relationship of communion with
the Triune God who wills to save all people by drawing them into
a lifegiving communion with him and with one another in the
Lasallian tradition, the spirit of faith is a spirit that allows one to:
• 	discover God’s active presence in his Word, in men and
women, in the poor, in nature, in history, and in ourselves;
• 	judge and evaluate things in the light of the gospel,
• 	search for God’s will in order to carry out his saving plan,
• 	unite one’s actions to the ongoing saving action of God I the
world and
• 	trust in God’s loving presence and providence when acting
or discerning God’s will.
Zeal for the Integral Salvation of All
Zeal is the active expression of faith in gospel witness
and service. It is oriented towards the integral salvation of
persons, particularly the poor and the excluded. Zeal is the
enthusiastic and total gift of self for the sake of the mission
expressed in such qualities as gratuity and generosity, creativity
and fortitude, compassion and commitment. It involves a
preferential concern for the poor and the vulnerable. The desire
to be of greater service to others conditions the quest for
excellence and continuous self-improvement.
Communion in Mission, Mission as Communion
Communion recalls the dynamic of association by which the
first Brothers bonded together for the sake of the particular
mission entrusted to them by God. Communion has four
dimensions. As a relationship with God, it is the source of all
mission and ministry; as a way of accomplishing mission, it
suggests the solidarity and collaboration that comes from
sharing in one vision, one spirit and one mission; as a way of
relating to others, it suggests openness to all persons and the
desire to be brother or sister to all especially those in need;
as a goal of mission, it suggests the unity that comes through
reconciliation between God, human beings, and creation.

-- 155 of 339 --

156
PRINCIPLES OF LASALLIAN EDUCATION IN THE PHILIPPINES
St. John Baptist de La Salle and his companions discerned God’s call to
service in the human and spiritual distress of the poor and abandoned
children. As a concrete response to this divine call, they associated
together to conduct schools that would make the benefits of a quality
human and Christian education accessible to the poor. By giving visible
and effective expression to the creative and redemptive love of God
for young people, such schools became “signs of God’s Kingdom and
instruments of salvation.”
Today, the mission of human and Christian education is a wide-
ranging collaborative effort entrusted to men and women of diverse
backgrounds and gifts, who, in creative fidelity to De La Salle’s vision,
commit themselves to making the benefits of a transformative human
and Christian education available to all, most especially to the poor.
Each member of the Lasallian Family lives out this commitment through
association in a Lasallian educational project according to his or her
particular role and area of competence. By our efforts to ensure the
vitality, relevance and effectiveness of the educational project, all who
participate in and support such work act as partners in the educational
process.
As inheritors of De La Salle’s legacy and collaborators in the
Lasallian Mission, we are convinced that:
• 	Lasallian education is a mission and ministry at the service of God,
the Church and society, and directed towards integral human and
Christian development and liberation.
• 	Lasallian education is imbued with a spirit of faith, which enables
persons to interpret, judge and evaluate realities in the light of the
Gospel, to unite one’s actions and intentions with God’s, and to rely
on God’s providence in acting and discerning God’s will.
• 	Lasallian education is marked by zeal: the wholehearted giving
of oneself to the service of others, in gratuity and generosity, in
creativity and fortitude, in compassion and commitment.
• 	Lasallian education is exercised as a communion in mission
marked by a fraternal spirit which enables all sectors of the school
community and all those who support its work to collaborate in
educating towards a world that is more humane, more just and more
fraternal, a world where no one is excluded from the banquet of life.

-- 156 of 339 --

157
• 	Lasallian education forms disciples and citizens, prophets and
professionals, who bring the transforming power of the Gospel to
bear on culture and on every human endeavour in order to realize
God’s kingdom of truth, justice, love, and peace.
Guided by these principles, we believe that…
Lasallian schools are educational communities where all sectors—
• 	Participate in the Church’s mission and are committed to easing
the plight of the vulnerable and marginalized sectors of Philippine
society; are committed to assuring the integral human and Christian
development of learners in all their uniqueness and diversity;
• 	Are co-responsible for creating a culture and climate conducive to
genuine learning and character formation;
• 	Are stakeholders who work in association with one another in a
strong spirit of fraternal solidarity; and
• 	Are committed to continuous renewal and transformation in
collaboration with others to accomplish their common mission.
Lasallian learners are unique and gifted individuals who…
• 	Strive to integrate Gospel perspectives and values in the conduct
of their daily lives; are committed to excellence in order to be of
greater service to God and country;
• 	Take progressive responsibility for their own learning and
development
• 	Express concern and compassion for the plight of the vulnerable
and marginalized sectors of society and respond to their needs;
• 	And work together creatively, constructively, and enthusiastically to
support the Lasallian Mission.
Lasallian educators are service-oriented professionals who. . .
• 	Are genuinely committed to the integral human and Christian
development of diverse types of learners through personal witness
and service;
• 	Are attentive to learners in their uniqueness and seek to build
appropriate relationships that promote total human formation;
• 	Are committed to lifelong personal and professional improvement
and service;

-- 157 of 339 --

158
• 	Work together creatively, constructively and enthusiastically both
to realize the Lasallian Mission and to assure the effectiveness and
vitality of the institutions to which they belong; and
• 	Serve as resources for the renewal of the Church and for the integral
development of society.
Lasallian educational experiences are dynamic processes that…
• 	Challenge learners to realize their full potential by promoting critical
and creative thinking, self-knowledge, and self-mastery;
• 	Bring Christian perspectives and values to bear on human
knowledge and culture;
• 	Encourage synergy, collaboration and dialogue in an environment
that is fraternal, hospitable, and laden with mutual respect;
• 	Impel learners to translate their knowledge into actual practice for
the betterment of society; and
• 	Prepare learners for responsible participation in the world of work,
the family, the community, the wider society, and the local Church.
Guided by these principles and together in faith and zeal, we aspire to
create educational works of quality that will be “signs of God’s Kingdom
and instruments of salvation” for the various individuals and groups
who seek to realize the fullness of their dignity and humanity through
education.
PRINCIPLES OF LASALLIAN SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Across the globe, in spite of the perceived bridging effect of
advancements in information and communications technology, the
multiple forms of exclusion and deprivation indicate the continuance
of human suffering. The deprivation ranges from environmental
degradation, material deficiencies as indicated by income poverty,
gender discrimination, to the denial of fundamental freedoms or rights.
Unless such prolonged social malaise is addressed, conflict within and
between societies are expected to be aggravated.
In the Philippines, the progress in addressing persistent social woes—
from poverty, unemployment, and landlessness, among others, has been
irregular. While the blame could be squarely put on the feeble nature of
the state and the deficiencies of the concomitant political institutions,
as well as the interrupted growth of the economy, the persistence of

-- 158 of 339 --

159
these problems could also be attributed to the inability of the relevant
social institutions to engender individuals who will constitute the social
capital that will push for significant social change. Of these institutions,
the schools must reflect on their roles and the transformative action
they must take to help bring forth genuine social development, a society
where everyone is liberated, and work towards the fullness of life.
As Lasallian institutions we understand that genuine social development
and the fullness of life for everyone in God’s plan requires our institutions
to fulfill our educational mission and subsequently:
BRING FORTH AWARENESS AND A DEEPER UNDERSTANDING OF
SOCIAL REALITIES. Lasallian institutions must strive to develop among
its members greater recognition of the realities of human suffering and
the stewardship role that each share in preserving the integrity of God’s
creation and creating a humane and just society. In developing such
awareness, our institutions should recognize the following:
• 	Awareness is the first level in a prolonged process of formation-
conscientization that is integral to our educational mission.
• 	Every individual needs to be constantly exposed to or immersed
in the pressing social problems to which we subsequently aim
to contribute a resolution. Such recursive and multi-sensory
experience should enable the Lasallian to transcend his/her class in
the same manner that our Founder, St. John Baptist de la Salle, gave
up the comforts of the canonry in favor of providing educational
services to the poor.
• 	Heightened awareness of social realities subsequently aids the
Lasallian in reading the signs of the times, discerning from this
expansive assessment of social realities the various modes of life-
affirming action that could be implemented to address prolonged
social problems.
EFFECT LIBERATING ACTION. Individually and collectively, Lasallians
must act to eliminate forms of human suffering that contradict the
God’s plan of fullness of life. Avenues and opportunities for self-propelled
individual, collective and institutional life-affirming action to respond
to varied social issues must be provided in every Lasallian institution.
In carrying out all forms of social development interventions, Lasallian
individuals and institutions must be guided by the following:
• 	The action to be undertaken must be context-sensitive so that it
could be purposeful and sustainable, necessary attributes of social
interventions owing to the depth/magnitude of the social problems
to which we hope to contribute resolutions. The contexts for social

-- 159 of 339 --

160
development intervention cover two dimensions –institutional and
societal. As regards the first, the actions to be undertaken must be
aligned to the core mission/purpose of their institution while the
second requires that all actions are appropriate to the social milieu
where such intervention will be effected. A thorough appreciation
of the context would allow for a nuanced selection among the
various forms of liberating action “from providing support services
[resources and skills sharing] to community and institutional
partners, advocating policies to address social and ecological issues,
to capacity-building engagements”.
• 	Actions must always be life-affirming. The goal of social
development interventions is to preserve and bring forth the fullness
of life. Liberating action is mutually empowering, enabling the
individuals and institutions engaged in such action to increasingly
realize their own worth as individuals and as a collective, deriving joy
and fulfilment from the faith-strengthening experience of inducing
social change.
• 	Liberating action should be capacitating and not a mere transfer
of the endowments of a Lasallian individual or institution to less
privileged and impoverished groups. The latter simply reproduces
the conditions that perpetuate dependence, helplessness,
indifference, benevolence and structural inequality.
BE IN SOLIDARITY WITH PROGRESSIVE ELEMENTS OF THE LARGER
COMMUNITY TO BRING FORTH A SOCIETY THAT IS IN KEEPING WITH
GOD’S PLAN. As a member of a community, of the nation, and of the
global village, Lasallian institutions must work in solidarity with peoples
and institutions that share the conviction in denouncing and working
towards the elimination of unjust practices and social structures that
deal death on the suffering majorities, promoting the participation of the
underrepresented and implementing other life-giving interventions.
The institutions and peoples that our institutions could partner
with locate themselves in communities, at the regional and
national levels, in the Asia-Pacific region, and across the world.
Lasallian institutions, individually and as a Philippine Family,
have the capacities to effectively work in partnership with
larger organizations, be they Church-based, multisectoral, or a
network of civil society organizations.
At the District level, the District Justice and Peace Commission
(DJPC) shall be the chief vehicle in forging partnerships with
national and international organizations that share the same
conviction for social change and emancipation in keeping with
God’s plan.

-- 160 of 339 --

161
LASALLIAN ASSOCIATIONS, ASSOCIATES, & OTHER
RELATIONSHIPS
Whereas, the Lasallian Family is growing worldwide, and the levels of
involvement and relationships of its members have evolved over the
years in an altogether unique way;
Whereas, the Philippine Lasallian Family recognizes individuals and
groups that have a long history of collaboration and have answered the
call to deepen their commitment to the Lasallian Mission as manifested
by their lives, which are marked by distinctive Lasallian characteristics;
Whereas, the Philippine Lasallian Family sees the need to create a
Task Force that will set in place definitive criteria and process in
classifying and recognizing Lasallian Associations, Associates and Other
Relationships with the end in view of providing them with options to
deepen their commitment to the “Shared Mission;”
Let it be resolved that the Brother Visitor create that Task Force
within School Year 2003-2004 considering sectoral and geographic
representations to generate District-wide participation utilizing various
approaches and strategies. The Chair of the Lasallian Partners Council
shall convene the Task Force.
Let it be further resolved that the Task Force shall submit within one
year its final output to the District Council and Lasallian Partners
Council. In turn, the District Council and Lasallian Partners Council shall
forward their recommendations to the Brother Visitor for final approval.
Dissemination and adoption of the approved criteria and process
immediately follow.
Let it be further resolved that the District provide necessary resources to
carry out this mandate.
Basic Premise
The main basis for the definitions provided below is the varying
levels of commitment to the Lasallian Mission.
Section I: Individuals
A. 	Members of the Philippine Lasallian Family
This is the entire universe of Lasallians: Brothers,
Sisters, students, parents, alumni, teachers, support
staff and benefactors who have been or are currently
connected to La Salle by virtue of their employment,
enrollment or participation in a Lasallian ministry,

-- 161 of 339 --

162
and who explicitly or implicitly consider themselves
members of the Lasallian Family.
B. 	Lasallian Partners
[These are Lasallians] who in fact share [the Lasallian
Mission] in its multiple educational, catechetical,
apostolic and professional aspects, and make it
possible for the mission to be accomplished. They
collaborate with conviction for the time they are
[connected with La Salle]. [cf. The Documents of the
43rd General Chapter, p. 4]
These are members of the Lasallian Family who are
currently and actively engaged in a Lasallian ministry,
and endeavor to be personal witnesses through their
ethical and moral lives, to live integrated lives worthy of
their vocations, and to be committed to their chosen
faiths, vocations and professions.
Since the main criterion is active engagement in
a Lasallian ministry, some students, parents and
alumni may also be considered Lasallian Partners if
their involvement goes beyond being beneficiaries of
Lasallian education. When these people volunteer to
be involved in the delivery of the Lasallian Mission to
others, they are de facto Lasallian Partners.
C. 	Lasallian Associates
[These] are Partners who have had a long record of
collaborating in the Lasallian Mission, and who feel a
call to deepen the charism, spirituality and Lasallian
communion in which they wish to participate. In
particular, their lives are already marked by a number of
distinctively Lasallian characteristics:
• 	A vocation inspired by the charism of Saint John
Baptist de La Salle and his values;
• 	A life of faith which discovers God in everyday
life understood in the light of Scripture and, for
persons of other religions, in the light of their own
sacred texts;
• 	A community experience of some form or other
suited to the identity of its members;

-- 162 of 339 --

163
• 	A mission of some duration which associates
persons with the educational service of the poor;
• 	An openness of mind which makes it possible
to see beyond the individual and his immediate
environment. [cf. The Documents of the 43rd
General Chapter, p. 4]
For some persons who are involved in the mission,
sharing tasks and responsibilities is a truly personal
response to an interior call which they feel, and which
motivates them to accept formation, to share, and
to listen to Lasallian appeals for commitment to
the service of young people in difficulty. By mutual
agreement, they may eventually be associated with a
community of Brothers or a District, depending on their
type of commitment. Perhaps they are already part
of a process which will lead them, later on, to join an
intentional group, if they so desire.
In certain cases, these persons, if they so wish, and at
their request, may express a desire to be associated
in a more formal way with the Institute. It is for the
Brother Visitor and his Council to recognize these
persons as Associates. [The Documents of the 43rd
General Chapter, p. 5]
Becoming an Associate is not an award or recognition
given by the District. It is first and foremost a free
choice of the Partner to deepen his/her commitment
to the Mission and to express this commitment in
a more formal way. The District merely accepts the
commitment and commissions the Partner as an
Associate. Because of this deepening commitment,
the commissioned Associate can expect, as St. La
Salle says, to receive two kinds of rewards: (1) “an
abundance of grace”; and (2) “a more extended
ministry and a greater ability to procure the conversion
of souls.” [Meditation 207.1] The reward for such
commitment and good work is, simply put, more work,
more responsibility, and the ability to do the work.
The goal of the District is not to create an elite class of
Associates. Rather, the goal is to promote the vocation
of the Associate so that there will be more Partners
willing to commit themselves to the Lasallian Mission

-- 163 of 339 --

164
in a deeper way. Building up a critical mass of such
Associates is necessary to further the Lasallian Mission
in the Philippines.
The following are expected of Associates:
1. 	An Associate must constantly endeavor to grow
in Lasallian spirituality by his/her involvement
in Lasallian formation, be it personal or for other
Partners.
2. 	An Associate must be actively involved in the
advocacy of particular causes relevant to the
advancement of the Lasallian Mission.
3. 	An Associate must continue to strive to live up to
the criteria by which he/she was commissioned as
an Associate.
Section II: Groups
A. 	Lasallian Groups
This is the entire universe of Lasallian organizations,
groups and communities: religious congregations,
student organizations, parents’ associations, alumni
associations, faculty and staff associations, labor
unions, etc. These are all groups that have been
formed because of some connection with a Lasallian
institution or ministry.
B. 	Lasallian Partner Groups
We call groups ‘intentional’ when their members, in
response to an interior call, come together voluntarily
to practice some aspects of Lasallian life, each group
choosing particular type of life and the length of their
members’ commitment. For this to be considered an
intentional Lasallian group, there are three necessary
conditions:
• 	That some aspect of Lasallian practice is clearly
visible;
• 	That there is a clear commitment to young people
and the poor;

-- 164 of 339 --

165
• 	That the Visitor and his Council have authenticated
it in an official document for a prescribed time.
In the medium term, we think that it is possible that
a number of other intentional groups will be founded.
In fact, these groups already exist, although they may
have no juridical structure. They exist because their
members have developed links and relationships, and
have adopted projects, and have done so with explicit
reference to the Lasallian charism which they share. If
they so wish, they could envisage becoming intentional
groups.
Such a request could come from a whole variety of
groups. These could include, among others: Lasallian
teams, teams of educators and teachers, joining forces
temporarily to respond to specific needs encountered
by young people in difficulty, Christian Lasallian
communities, volunteers, Lasallian Youth, young people
doing missionary work, former pupils, parents of
students.
We should note that in the composition of these
groups, one can meet Brothers, other Christians,
members of other religions, and persons of good
will whose point of reference, as the 42nd General
Chapter indicates, is the “human and spiritual values
recognized, pursued by and lived by all Lasallians –
meditation, service of the poor, the family, human
rights, the rights of children…” (Circular 435, p. 43) [The
Documents of the 43rd General Chapter, p. 5-6]
Lasallian Partner Groups are Lasallian Groups that are
currently and actively engaged in a Lasallian ministry.
Since the main criterion is active engagement, some
student organizations, parents and alumni associations
may also be considered Lasallian Partner Groups if their
involvement is in the delivery of the Lasallian Mission to
others.

-- 165 of 339 --

166
C. 	Lasallian Associations
Consequently, we recognize as being associated
with the Lasallian Mission all intentional groups
and all persons who respond to an interior call by
an educational commitment which has Lasallian
characteristics, and which has been authenticated by a
competent authority.
Together, these persons and groups are associated with
the Institute of the Brothers of the Christian Schools, in
order to respond, in a complementary manner, to the
demands of the Lasallian Mission. The charism inspiring
this mission was given to Saint John Baptist de La Salle,
and was authenticated by the Church, for the service
of young people. [The Documents of the 43rd General
Chapter, p. 6]
A Lasallian Association is a Lasallian Partner Group that
has asked to be formally associated with the Lasallian
Mission. Becoming a Lasallian Association is not an award
or recognition given by the District. It is first and foremost
a free choice of the Lasallian Partner Group members to
deepen their commitment to the Mission and to express
this commitment in a more formal way. The District
merely accepts the commitment.
The following are expected of Lasallian Associations:
1. 	The group must have some structures for
formation and renewal.
2. 	The group must be aligned with the directions of
the Lasallian Mission set by the De La Salle Brothers
and the Philippine Lasallian Family as expressed
in the resolutions of the General Chapter, the
District Chapter and the Philippine Lasallian Family
Convocation.
In behalf of the Philippine Lasallian Family, we salute
the following committed Brothers and Lay Partners
who shared their time and talents to draw up the 3
documents as mandated by the Convocation of 2003.
From the booklet, Guiding Principles of the Philippine
Lasallian Family Published by The Philippine Lasallian
Family, 2005.

-- 166 of 339 --

167
LASALLIAN SCHOOLS IN THE PHILIPPINES
De La Salle University (1911)
Malate, Manila and Laguna
Campus
De La Salle Andres Soriano
Memorial College (1965)
Toledo City, Cebu
La Salle University-Ozamiz (1929)
Ozamiz City, Misamis Occidental
De La Salle-Santiago Zobel School
(1978)
Muntinlupa City, Metro Manila
De La Salle Araneta University
(1946)
Malabon City, Metro Manila
La Salle College Antipolo (1985)
Antipolo City, Rizal
University of St. La Salle (1952)
Bacolod City, Negros Occidental
De La Salle University-Dasmariñas
(1987)
Dasmariñas, Cavite
La Salle Academy (1958)
Iligan City, Lanao del Norte
De La Salle Medical Health
Sciences Institute (1987)
Dasmariñas, Cavite
La Salle Green Hills (1959)
Mandaluyong City, Metro Manila
De La Salle - College of Saint
Benilde (1988)
Malate, Manila
St. Joseph School-La Salle (1960)
Bacolod City, Negros Occidental
St. Jaime Hilario School - De La
Salle Bataan (2006)
Bagac, Bataan
De La Salle Lipa (1962)
Lipa City, Batangas
De La Salle John Bosco College
(1963)
Bislig City, Surigao Del Sur

-- 167 of 339 --

168
APPENDIX B
SOUTH MANILA EDUCATIONAL CONSORTIUM
(SMEC)
The South Manila Educational Consortium (SMEC) formerly South Manila
Inter-Institutional Consortium (SMI-IC) was established in 1974 to be an
instrument for the maximization of institutional resources through the
sharing and cooperation of universities and colleges in the South Manila
area. It is the oldest academic consortium in the Philippines.
Originally, the member schools are: DLSU, PCU, SSC and SPM. Now, the
consortium is composed of twelve member schools, as follows:
Adamson University (AdU) 	University of the Philippines
-Manila (UP-M)
De La Salle-College of Saint
Benilde (DLS-CSB)
Philippine Christian University
(PCU)
De La Salle University (DLSU) 	Philippine Normal University (PNU)
Emilio Aguinaldo College (EAC) 	Sta. Isabel College (SIC)
Philippine Women’s University
(PWU)
St. Scholastica’s College (SSC)
Lyceum of the Philippines
University (LPU)
St. Paul University Manila (SPUM)
For more than thirty years, SMEC has provided a support network
to ensure quality, humanist, and holistic education to its member
schools. The committees formed by representatives from SMEC
member schools focused on common issues and concerns ranging
from administrative, academic, students, and service-related projects.
Projects and activities organized by the committees strengthened
and complemented existing school programs. More than a hundred
projects were completed in the areas of faculty and staff enhancement,
instructional materials development, technology updating and
training, physical resources improvement and library collection
expansion. Camaraderie and community spirit have also been fostered,
strengthening the spirit of oneness and belonging.
SMEC envisions a nation transformed through education. Its mission
is to organize a group of higher education institutions actively
collaborating to effect social transformation by promoting the cause
of education. This is to be achieved by making quality and relevant
learning accessible to as many as possible. SMEC aims not just to
prepare graduates to be professionally competent but also to inculcate

-- 168 of 339 --

169
in them humanist and holistic values centered and rooted in Christ.
SMEC has five service areas that implement projects. Extension
Services promotes civic responsibility through critical engagement and
participation in the community and society Student Affairs Committee
promotes excellence and quality education through better student
services. Curriculum and Instruction continuously share information,
training and resources to improve curriculum and instruction of
member schools. Faculty and Administrative Staff Development ensure
excellence especially in faculty academic preparation, competency, and
effectiveness. Research and Publications monitors and supervises the
conduct of SMEC research projects as well as textbook preparation and
publication.
Collaboration leads to synergy among member schools to effectively
initiate social change. Developing the strengths of each member and
respect for each other’s differences is the core in enhancing the spirit of
complementarity and camaraderie.

-- 169 of 339 --

170
APPENDIX C
STUDENT SERVICES AND PROGRAMS
OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT FOR LASALLIAN MISSION
UNITS
Center for Social Concern and Action (COSCA)
The Center for Social Concern and Action (COSCA) is the social
development arm of De La Salle University. We are the primary unit
responsible in mobilizing the university to serve Church and Society,
especially the poor and marginalized.
We accomplish this by facilitating the integration of social engagement
in the teaching, learning, research and community life of the university.
The office further strengthens these efforts via reciprocal, strategic and
sustainable partnerships guided by Lasallian Principles and the teachings
of the Church.
We currently have a pool of sixty (60) community partners composed of
People’s Organizations (POs), Non-Government Organizations (NGOs),
and other Civil Society Organizations (CSO) you may engage with. These
organizations are located in the National Capital Region, Batangas and
Nueva Ecija. They represent various sectors including fisherfolk, farmers,
children, persons with disabilities (PWD), persons deprived of liberty
(PDLs), urban poor communities, local government units and faith-based
organizations.
Services Offered
Service-Learning Orientation for Students
We collaborate with your professors to provide students with the
needed information and assistance to ensure that service-learning
projects align with course outcomes, community needs, off-campus
policies and Lasallian values.
Social Engagement Guidance for Student Organizations
We provide social engagement orientation and consultation for
student organizations. We guide groups in the development,
implementation and evaluation of their desired social engagement
initiatives.

-- 170 of 339 --

171
Placement in Formal and Informal Volunteering Opportunities
We offer seasonal opportunities to volunteer in any of our
community projects and activities. We also invite interested students
to to join the two student volunteer organizations we supervise,
namely:
COSCA Lasallian Outreach Volunteer Effort (COSCA L.O.V.E.
Volunteers)
De La Salle - Red Cross Youth (DLS - RCY).
Identification of Potential Partners for Social Engagement
We can also help you find a suitable community partner that may
benefit from your group’s skills, talents, strengths and resources. It
would always be best though to get to know the partner better before
finalizing any plans.
Opportunities for Community Exposure / Immersion
We also offer weeklong community immersion activities during
summer through our EHEMPLO Community Immersion Program.
Shorter exposure visits to our partners may also be offered or
arranged for your group.
Advocacy and Mobilization Activities
To enable students to critically reflect and act on pressing social
issues, we organize regular Kapihan ng Malalayang Lasalyano
(KAMALAYAN) sessions in-campus or online. We also unite with
other social development networks and political organizations for
mobilization and policy advocacy activities to apply what we learn
from KAMALAYAN.
Lasallian Pastoral Office (LSPO)
The Lasallian Pastoral Office (LSPO) leads the members of the DLSU
community towards faith-life integration and in becoming authentic
disciples and prophetic citizens through worship and liturgical
celebrations, spiritual formation, community building activities, and
research on spirituality and faith development. LSPO is known and
distinguished:
1) by the retreats and recollections it gives to the students (LASARE,
SHARE, and FORMLAW), faculty, staff and personnel of the university
that help deepen their spirituality and facilitate in building faith
communities in the university;

-- 171 of 339 --

172
2) by the meaningful liturgical celebrations that nurture the faith and
deepen prayer life of the community; and
3) by becoming a resource for the Church as it promotes priestly and
religious vocations and in conducting research in faith development.
LSPO maintains various groups of ministers that assist in the liturgical
celebrations of the community. It is also supported by the Student
Lasallian Animators, the volunteer youth ministers in the campus.
These groups of ministers and volunteers receive special formation
program and training in order to be of better service to the community,
to the Church and society. The office supervises the Catholic Religious
Organizations of Students (CROSs) and other religious organizations
and communities in the campus. LSPO also conducts interfaith prayer
services with other Christian communities; Iftar Dinner during Ramadan
for Muslim faculty, staff, and students; and liturgical celebrations during
the Chinese New Year.
Lasallian Center for Inclusion, Diversity, and Well-being
(LCIDWell)
The Lasallian Center for Inclusion, Diversity, and Well-being (LCIDWell)
was established to respond to the requirements of Republic Act No.
11313 or the Safe Spaces Act and Republic Act No. 11036 or the Mental
Health Act. Grounded on the Lasallian principles of inclusivity and
respect for all persons to ensure a learning and working environment that
values the well-being, diversity, and dignity of persons in the community,
the overall goal of LCIDWell is to ensure the implementation of programs
and integration of policies on inclusion, diversity, and well-being in DLSU’s
manuals and operations. LCIDWell has three areas of focus: (i) Gender
Responsiveness and Safe Spaces; (ii) Accommodation and Inclusion for
Diverse Populations; and (iii) Mental Health and Well-being. LCIDWell also
serves as the secretariat for the Council on Inclusion, Diversity and Well-
being (CIDW).
As the secretariat for the Committee on Decorum and Investigation
(CODI), LCIDWell receives and processes cases of sexual harassment
and provides adequate support to the CODI. The center will oversees the
mental health programs for the DLSU community, and provides mental
health services for DLSU employees.

-- 172 of 339 --

173
Lasallian Social Enterprise for Economic Development
(LSEED)
The Lasallian Social Enterprise for Economic Development (LSEED)
Center is the flagship initiative of De La Salle University in areas of
social entrepreneurship and social innovation. It localizes the United
Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals by working with students and
communities in creating social enterprises. In 2019, LSEED Center was
awarded first runner up for Academic Leadership in Social Innovation in
Asia-Pacific.
Vision
LSEED Center envisions itself to be an internationally recognized
center for social entrepreneurship that promotes innovation,
inclusion, and collaboration with emphasis on community-student
partnerships and sustainable development.
Mission
LSEED Center is committed to form social entrepreneurs and
innovators who are driven to contribute to community development
and help localize the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
through social entrepreneurship.
Programs
• LSEED Fellowship Program
• Social Enterprise Development for Student Organizations Program
• Curricular & Co Curricular Program
• LSEED Internship & Volunteering Program
• LSEED Certificate Program
• Advocacy & Internationalization Program
• Social Innovation of Entrepreneurship Research Program
Lasallian Social Entrepreneurship
Social Entrepreneurship is a multi-sectoral, multidisciplinary,
and innovative approach to development that aims to address
community social problems by utilizing concrete and inclusive
business models that are anchored on the principles of sustainable
development.

-- 173 of 339 --

174
Key Elements
Inclusive Ownership Structure-inclusion of community members in
the ownership structure of social enterprises as co-owners and not
just mere beneficiaries, laborers, or suppliers.
Quality Participation-equitable participation of community
members, students, and other stakeholders from the planning up to
the business operation stage of the social enterprise.
Equitable Valuation-proper valuation of non-monetary contributions
of all stakeholders of the community
Lasallian Mission Office-Laguna (LMO)
The Lasallian Mission Office (LMO) works towards synergizing its efforts
to realize the University’s vision-mission of bridging faith and scholarship
in the service of society, especially the poor and marginalized. Our
mandate is to provide opportunities for the Laguna campus community
to live out and promote our Lasallian core values of Faith, Zeal for Service,
and Communion in Mission as expressed in the University Vision-Mission
statement. Ultimately, the goal of our faith formation, social engagement,
and community building programs is to allow each Lasallian to discover
how they can contribute towards meaningful social transformation.
The Lasallian Mission Office (LMO) is responsible for the formulation
of holistic and spiritual formation programs that respond to the needs
of students, administrators, faculty, and co-academic personnel of the
Lasallian community. It is also structured to complement the academic
potentials of the students by promoting integrity and creating synergy in
its programs and activities.
Ministries under LMO
A. Formation and Campus Ministry
The Formation and Campus Ministry contributes to the realization
of DLSU’s vision by providing opportunities for faith and spiritual
development and by creating venues where the life and charism of St.
John Baptist de La Salle are promoted in order to continuously inspire
the members of the academic community to be achievers for God and
Country.
It provides the members of the Lasallian Community with opportunities
for spiritual nourishment and growth through the various liturgical
and para-liturgical celebrations. It ensures active participation of the
community in the Mass by training and forming a pool of Liturgical
Ministers such as Liturgical Choirs, Lectors and Commentators, Ministers

-- 174 of 339 --

175
of the Special Eucharist and Altar Servers. It takes charge of retreats
and recollections for students and other sectors of the community. The
programs on adult formation hopes to effect genuine Lasallian formation
to the adult members of the Lasallian community through communal
accompaniment and opportunities for volunteerism and involvement.
It aims to help the members of the Lasallian community to deepen
their understanding of what it means to be a Lasallian and to better
appreciate their rich heritage.
B. Social Engagement Ministry
Moved by our faith, this ministry provides Social Engagement Programs
and activities that are designed where individuals and groups within
the campus come together to advance the public good, address
systemic challenges, or to influence the direction of a community. It
organizes and supervises activities that contribute to the development
of social involvement and creates and maintains a support system for
community engagement particularly the poor areas surrounding the
institution by fostering the spirit of service and of volunteerism among
the members of the institution. Likewise, this acts as the overall in
charge of the LINGAP Program and other social engagement activities.
Office of Student Affairs (OSA)
The Office of Student Affairs (OSA) envisions itself as a leading learner-
centered student affairs and development resource committed to the
holistic formation of Lasallians integrating faith-life, leadership, and
community engagement towards social transformation.
Inspired by the Lasallian Core Values of Faith, Zeal for Service, and
Communion in Mission, the units under Student Affairs commits to
accompany students by:
• 	Providing holistic Lasallian formation programs that integrates faith-
life, community engagement and servant leadership;
• 	Providing resource and consultancy services in career development,
counseling, student discipline formation, spiritual formation, sports
development, cultural arts, student media, leadership formation, and
community development;
• 	Developing evidence-based student formation interventions and
services;
• 	Engaging in meaningful collaborative partnerships with different
sectors internal and external to the University to integrate student
development programs and services;

-- 175 of 339 --

176
• 	Empowering student affairs personnel to become faith-driven and
service-oriented formators; and
• 	Nurturing a learner-centered environment through efficient and
quality student services and up-to-date facilities.
The following are the constituent offices under OSA:
Culture and Arts Office (CAO)
The Culture and Arts Office (CAO) dedicates itself in the promotion of
a well-balanced, non-formal culture and arts education to the Lasallian
community. The office provides after-school artistic training to qualified
students in dance, music, theatre and event management, backed by
a Quality Assurance component to continuously raise the standards
of cultural promotion in the University. It manages seven performing
groups, namely: DLSU Chorale, Lasallian Youth Orchestra, De La Salle
Innersoul, La Salle Dance Company-Contemporary, La Salle Dance
Company-Folk, La Salle Dance Company-Street, and DLSU Harlequin
Theatre Guild. The groups are supported by the DLSU Green Media Group,
which acts as the events and production management arm of the office.
The skills of aspiring artists in these fields are refined through relevant
workshops, master classes, productions,and participation in festivals and
competitions.
Through the “Art in Action” programs, the office supplements the
learning experience provided by the academic departments in teaching
culture and arts-related subjects through providing interactive
approaches in the curriculum through shows and craft demonstrations.
CAO also aids in the promotion of culture and arts to underprivileged
communities through teaching artistic skills and producing shows for
them.
Part of the office’s creative services are providing performances,
artistic direction, and audio-visual production during the activities of
various offices, departments, and organizations inside and outside the
University. Likewise, it also serves as the university’s information hub
on culture and arts events that the students can expose themselves to
further their experience and knowledge of the subject.
NSTP and Formation Office (NFO)
The NSTP and Formation Office implements the student development
and formation programs integrated into the undergraduate curriculum.
It emphasizes the significance of Lasallian formation to be present on
all the mass-based and government-mandated programs offered to
the students in the University. NFO envisions to be at the forefront of

-- 176 of 339 --

177
curriculum-based student formation programs integrating student
learning experiences towards the fulfillment of one’s Lasallian identity in
nation-building.
Core Functions:
(1) Supervises the design, implementation, formulation, and adoption of
the National Service Training Program (NSTP) Components;
(2) Ensures the integration of the Lasallian formation in the different
NSTP components;
(3) Develop and implement curriculum-integrated Lasallian formation
programs given to students; and
(4) Provide meaningful and formative activities to students in
coordination with the different units under the Office of Student Affairs.
Office of Counseling and Career Services (OCCS)
The Office of Counseling and Career Services (OCCS) is a service
unit that provides resource and consultancy services in counseling
and career development, develops research-based counseling and
career development programs, and engages itself in meaningful and
collaborative partnership with various stakeholders of the University. The
office, through its team of professional counselors and career services
providers, delivers preventive and responsive programs and services
which are designed to complement the academic and formation
programs of the university and contribute to the holistic formation of
the students.
OCCS values cultivating happiness among Lasallians. Thus, OCCS is
committed to providing students a SAFE SPACE AND CONFIDENTIAL
ENVIRONMENT (physically and virtually) for them to be heard and freely
discuss their academic, career, personal, and mental health concerns.
Through these programs and services, OCCS provides support and
accompanies students as they transition to university life.
OCCS is composed of a team of licensed professional counselors who
value and support student wellbeing and facilitate the acquisition of life
skills for personal growth, employability, and productive living.

-- 177 of 339 --

178
Office of Sports Development (OSD)
The Office of Sports Development (OSD) is the unit tasked with the
formulation, design, and implementation of university sports programs,
projects, policies, and procedures. It is also responsible in ensuring the
university’s responsiveness to the needs of the changing academic and
non-academic conditions in the field of sports by providing formative
programs to its student-athletes.
Student Discipline Formation Office (SDFO)
The Student Discipline Formation Office (SDFO) promotes student
discipline formation and character development. It anchors on its
framework of prevention, promotion, and formation in order to facilitate
transformation in the students by employing the following: (1) Behavioral
management and intervention programs for students with discipline-
related concerns; and (2) Preventive approaches through policy
education, advocacy, and trainings.
SDFO programs include formative interventions, discipline formations,
student volunteers/support staff, student discipline awards and
recognitions, policy awareness, case conferences and proceedings, and
student discipline monitoring. The office also provides services such
as pre-hearing consultations, discipline clearances, discipline-related
assistance, lost and found services, lending of calculators, discipline
publications and media, and the SDFO clear-up drive.
The SDFO Paragons program, its student support staff, is designed to
recruit students with capabilities, potential, and interest to assist in
the planning, implementation and evaluation of SDFO’s programs and
services. SDFO also trains the members of the Student Representatives
Pool (SRP) program who represent the student body in all formal
hearings, summary proceedings and case conferences of the SDFB and
UPCC.
In addition to its direct line, 536-0269, and three (3) local lines, 611 (DES),
290 (LFCS) and 414 (DEAPS), the Lasallian community may report any
discipline-related incident or concern via the following communication
channels:
Student Media Office (SMO)
The Student Media Office (SMO) oversees the operations of the major
student media groups of De La Salle University.
SMO offers students the opportunity to hone their skills in print
publications, TV and radio broadcast, online media, marketing, art,

-- 178 of 339 --

179
photography, and graphic design. It ensures the smooth flow in the
operations of the major student media groups, namely Ang Pahayagang
Plaridel, Archers Network, Green & White, Green Giant FM, Malate Literary
Folio, and The LaSallian.
It prepares the members of the University’s major student media groups
for ethical, disciplined, journalistic, literary, and creative work. It also
helps the student media members achieve the autonomy envisioned by
the Campus Journalism Act of 1991.
Office of Student Leadership, Involvement, Formation, and
Empowerment (SLIFE)
The Office of Student Leadership, Involvement, Formation, and
Empowerment (Student L.I.F.E.) seeks to develop and implement
programs that promote self-sustaining development and positive
influence towards effective personal and organizational leadership. It
takes charge of ensuring smooth and well-balanced implementation
of co-curricular and extra-curricular activities of the different student
groups under the University Student Government (USG), the Council of
Student Organizations (CSO), Graduate Student Council (GSC), Graduate
student organizations, and other special groups. It also encourages
student involvement and helps orient frosh and graduate school learners
on University life.
OFFICE OF THE VICE PRESIDENT FOR LAGUNA CAMPUS
College Student Affairs - Laguna (CSA)
Attuned to a vibrant DLSU Laguna Campus community, the College
Student Affairs executes the programs and services of the Student
Leadership Involvement, Formation and Empowerment (SLIFE), NSTP and
Formation Office (NFO), Student Discipline Formation Office (SDFO) and
collaborate with other Student Affairs constituent offices in providing
opportunities for student involvement, volunteerism, leadership, and
behavior management through various student development programs.

-- 179 of 339 --

180
OTHER STUDENT SERVICES
THE LIBRARIES
The Libraries at DLSU goes beyond being a traditional library. It is
designed as a welcoming and vibrant “third space” – a place apart
from home and work – fostering a learning and a sense of community.
It encourages students, faculty, and researchers to learn together as
scholars and as human beings. The Libraries provides a vast array
of information resources and services to support the University’s
instructional, curricular, research, and extension programs. It strives
to provide an enriching and stimulating learning environment through
organized, relevant, and efficient information services and innovative
facilities.
The Libraries currently has five satellite libraries on three DLSU
campuses, which cater to all faculty, students, researchers, and alumni:
• 	The Learning Commons – Manila Campus
The “main” library of DLSU, housed at the Henry Sy, Sr. Hall, occupies
eight and a half floors (5F to 14F) to accommodate its growing
population and collection.
• 	Law Library - Rufino Campus
Located at the 7th floor
Houses the law collection and its allied disciplines, including multiple
sets of the Supreme Court Reports Annotated (SCRA) in both print
and digital formats
• 	College Library - Laguna Campus
Located at the 3rd floor, West Wing, Milagros Del Rosario Building
Houses books, theses, journals, and magazines on various disciplines
• 	Integrated School Library - Laguna Campus
Houses books, non-print materials, and student research papers on
varied subject areas that support the higher grades students.
• 	Preschool Library - Laguna Campus
Houses books, manipulative toys, board games, and other non-print
materials that support the early grades students.

-- 180 of 339 --

181
Collections
The Libraries offers a vast collection of digital resources that are
accessible via its website to support academic endeavors. This includes:
• 	Nearly 500,000 volumes of print books
• 	Almost 200,000 titles of eBooks
• 	Over 5,000 titles of individual journals 245 online databases
• 	More than 34,000 volumes of theses and dissertations (available in
print, CDs, and electronic formats).
Spaces
The Libraries offers a variety of zones for specific purposes. These
include:
• 	Discussion Rooms: Ideal for collaborative group work and
discussions. Reservation for their use may be done here.
• 	Quiet Study Areas: Dedicated spaces for focused individual study,
such as the Faculty Corner, Graduate Corner, and Quiet Room.
• 	Chill at the 5th: A dedicated space for relaxation and recreation.
• 	6F Exhibit Area: Hosts live performances and interactive exhibits
fostering engagement.
• 	Makerspace: A hub for individuals with shared interests in
technology-based creation and tinkering.
• 	Group Viewing Rooms: Equipped for multimedia presentations and
group viewing sessions.
• 	Audio-Visual Room: Accommodates larger presentations and
screenings.
• 	Meeting and Conference Rooms: Suitable for small conferences,
seminars, and workshops.

-- 181 of 339 --

182
Schedule of
service hours
Monday to Friday 	Saturday
The Learning
Commons
(Manila
Campus)
7:00AM – 8:00PM (7F - 14F)
7:00AM – 9:00PM (6F)
7:00AM – 8:00PM (7F -
14F)
7:00AM – 9:00PM (6F)
Law Library
(Rufino Campus,
BGC)
8:00AM – 10:00PM
(Reading Area)
8:00AM – 12:00MN
(Student Center)
8:00AM – 8:00PM
(Reading Area)
8:00AM – 12:00MN
(Student Center)
College Library
(Laguna
Campus)
7:00AM – 7:00PM 	8:00AM-12:00PM
Information
Commons
(Laguna
Campus)
8:00AM – 5:00PM 	Closed
Schedule of
service hours
Monday to Friday 	Saturday
The Learning
Commons
(Manila
Campus)
8:00AM – 5:00PM 	8:00AM – 12:00PM
Law Library
(Rufino Campus,
BGC)
8:00AM – 5:00PM 	8:00AM – 12:00PM
College Library
(Laguna
Campus)
8:00AM – 5:00PM 	8:00AM – 12:00PM
Information
Commons
(Laguna
Campus)
8:00AM – 5:00PM 	Closed
Library Service Hours
During regular term
During term break

-- 182 of 339 --

183
Connect with us
Health Services
The Health Services Office (HSO) aims to ensure the well-being of
students and employees of the University by providing basic medical
care, performing physical examination, prescribing appropriate medical
and dental treatment and referring clients to different disciplines by
competent medical and paramedical personnel. The HSO offers the
following services:
• 	Attendance to emergency calls
• 	Routine medical and dental examination and prescription of
medication
• 	Periodic medical and dental examination
• 	Medicine dispensation
• 	Provision of medical team to students’ activities done outside
the campus
• 	Issuance of first aid kit
• 	Referral to specialist
• 	Conduction of patients with emergency hospital needs to
nearby hospitals
• 	Validation of medical certificate
• 	Issuance of medical certificate for university purposes
• 	Health education through individual counseling and wide
information dissemination
• 	Pre-employment examination of employees
• 	Other services related to the preceding services

-- 183 of 339 --

184
Clinic Locations and Operating Hours
Taft Campus 	Makati Extension
Campus
Laguna
Campus
Main Clinic 	Ground Floor, Br.
Connon Hall
Room 518, 5th
Floor, RCBC
Building, Ayala
Ave., Makati City
East Wing,
Lower Ground
Floor, Milagros
del Rosario
Building
Satellite
Clinic
Ground Floor,
Enrique Razon
Sports Complex
LC1 Clinic 	Ground Floor
Learning
Community 1
LC2 Clinic 	Room 308, 3rd
floor, Learning
Community 2
Clinic Hours 	Monday to
Saturday
6:00 am to
10:00 pm
Monday to Friday
1:30 pm to
9:00 pm
Saturday
7:30 am to
3:30 pm
Monday to
Saturday
7:00 am to
6:30 pm
Dining Services
The University’s food concessionaires make fresh and healthy meals,
light snacks and refreshments available to the academic community
from Monday to Saturday. The Manila campus has canteens located
at St. La Salle Hall, the Br. Andrew Gonzalez Hall, and the Enrique Razon
Sports Complex. The Laguna Campus has one canteen at the Milagros
del Rosario Building. These concessionaires also provide catering
services for school functions and social gatherings.

-- 184 of 339 --

185
Bloemen Hall, located along St. Joseph Walk, provides the community
an access to a wide variety of grab-and-go meals and desserts. It
also houses student-run businesses under the ANIMO BIZ (Business
Innovation Zone) program, the Bloemen Art Gallery and the Green Giant
DJ booths, easily making the area one of the hippest hang out places in
the Manila campus.
A coffee shop operated by the Coffee Bean and Tea Leaf Co. at the 6th
Floor of Henry Sy, Sr. Hall caters to the patrons of the library.
Auxiliary Services
The University has a full roster of service providers to make the
academic life of students as convenient and conducive to learning
as possible. These include a Bookstore, located at the ground floor of
Yunchengco Hall, where textbooks and basic school supplies may be
purchased and a Copy Center, located at LS125, to meet the various
printing needs of the members of the community.
A digital hub operated by Power Mac Center serves the technology needs
of the community. The DLSU Store and Concierge are also located at the
Ground Floor of Yuchengco Hall.
Transportation Services
The school manages a transportation system to support the various
logistical needs of the academic community. The primary service is
carried out through Arrows Express which operates 5 round trip routes
whose schedules are set and announced at the start of every term.
Chartered trips are also arranged for other school activities such as
sports events, student plays, immersion activities and team building
exercises, as requested by host offices or organizations.
Security Services
The University maintains 24/7 security in all campuses through organic
personnel and an accredited security agency. Services rendered include
emergency response and incident investigations. Members of the
community are also assisted when addressing concerns that require
further police coordination and action.

-- 185 of 339 --

186
Scholarships
The following are the scholarship grants managed by the Office of of
Admissions and Scholarships (OAS):
• 	Animal Biology Scholarships
• 	Archer Achievers
• 	Athletic Scholarship
• 	Br. Andrew Gonzalez Academic Scholarship
• 	Brother President Scholarship Program
• 	CAO-DLSU Chorale
• 	CAO-Harlequin Theatre Guild
• 	CAO-De La Salle Inner Soul
• 	CAO-La Salle Dance Company Jazz
• 	CAO-La Salle Dance Company Street
• 	CAO-La Salle Dance Company-Contemporary
• 	CAO-La Salle Dance Company-Folk
• 	CAO-Lasallian Youth Orchestra
• 	PWD Graduate
• 	PWD Undergraduate
• 	Centennial Scholarship Program (CSP)
• 	Children of Retired Faculty/ASF/APSP
• 	Debate Society Scholarship
• 	Family Tuition Privilege
• 	Free Elective Fund
• 	Gokongwei Grants
• 	Last Mile Scholarship
• 	Lingap Scholarship Program
• 	Military Scholarships
• 	OAS-Scholarship for Children of CAP
• 	ROTC Tuition Grant
• 	Scholarship for Children of Co-Academic Personnel - SCC
• 	Scholarship for Children of Faculty
• 	Scholarship for Children of STC Pioneer
• 	St. La Salle Institute of Graduate Studies
• 	St. Mutien Marie-Student Aid (Graduate)
• 	Star Scholarship
• 	Student Aid (College) - St La Salle Scholarship Grant
• 	Student Aid (Graduate) - St La Salle Scholarship Grant
• 	Vaugirard Scholarship Program (VSP)
Note: This list does not include externally funded scholarship (EFS)
grants. For inquiries on EFS, please email scholarships@dlsu.edu.ph

-- 186 of 339 --

187
APPENDIX D
EXPECTED LASALLIAN GRADUATE ATTRIBUTES (ELGAs)
The Expected Lasallian Graduate Attributes (ELGAs) focus on the
knowledge, skills and attributes that graduates should acquire and
demonstrate in their course of studies and internships as evidence of
accomplishing the school’s vision-mission. These ELGAs also reflect the
graduate’s capacity for lifelong learning and transfer of knowledge in the
workplace.
Expected Lasallian
Graduate Attributes
(ELGAs)
Desired Learning Results That Demonstrate Higher
Order Thinking Skills
Lasallians who:
Culturally Sensitive
Critical and Creative
Thinkers
• 	Are interculturally fluent and have a global
mindset, open to deep dialogue with others
from different cultural backgrounds, whether
in physical or digital spaces.
• 	understand and respect traditional ways and
indigenous values, appreciating them as part
of the diversity that enriches one’s life.
• 	acknowledge, practice and promote cultural
elements that contribute to one’s identity
• 	critically examine information to bring to light
assumptions and evidences behind them
before accepting and/or acting on them.
• 	are able to look at things from different
perspectives and can appreciate points of
view different from theirs.
• 	generate ideas, designs, systems or
information with resourcefulness,
imagination, insight, originality, aesthetic
judgment, enterprise, and a risk-taking
approach to meet current and emerging
needs of society.
• 	reflect on and derive new insights from
existing information and express them in
different ways, including creative and artful
forms.

-- 187 of 339 --

188
Effective Communicator 	• 	communicate effectively and confidently in
a range of contexts and for many different
audiences and communication platforms
such as social media, using inclusive or non-
discriminatory language at all times.
• 	respond to multiple experiences and ideas
about the world and communicate personal,
spiritual, and religious meaning through
various modes and media.
• 	engage in constructive dialogue by listening
actively to understand the intent, spirit,
meaning and context of others’ words, and
respond compassionately and with empathy
in both verbal and non-verbal ways.
• 	compose and express a wide range of
written, spoken, and visual texts to convey
information for a variety of purposes that are
meaningful to society.
• 	are linguistically sensitive when
communicating with others, taking
difference and diversity in positive and
productive ways.

-- 188 of 339 --

189
Reflective Lifelong
Learner
• 	plan, organize, manage, and evaluate their
own thinking, performance, behavior, and
physical, mental, and spiritual well being, and
adjust them when necessary, for the sake of
self-betterment.
• 	reflect on the significance of God/the
Numinous/the Divine/the Cosmos and
religious and spiritual experiences, for
themselves and others.
• 	develop awareness of the spiritual or religious
significance of life and its implications on
their place in the world.
• 	are open to the excitement of new
knowledge and new ways of doing and being.
• 	are able to recreate themselves into new
capacities, careers, and service-callings.
• 	carefully and critically adapt to the
digitization of their environment, having
the ability to humanize technology,
understanding that technology is a means,
not an end.
• 	understand the nature, potential benefits
and risks involved in advancing technologies,
especially in the areas of information and
computing, biotechnology, nanotechnology,
among others.
• 	are able to practice self-care, always
open to positive experiences in life, but
appreciating difficulties as necessary for self-
strengthening and soul-making.

-- 189 of 339 --

190
Engaged and Service-
Driven Citizen
• 	develop and incorporate Lasallian leadership
skills, serving as companions to all in a shared
journey of positive social transformation,
achieving goals together and by association.
• 	are able to widen their sphere of experience,
immerse themselves in situations that
allow opportunities to develop genuine
compassion by cultivating a way of being-
with (kapwa) others.
• 	actively participate in deliberative
public forums in order to elevate their
understanding of the issues involved.
• 	analyze community, social, and national
realities and take an active role in advancing
social progress and the common good.
• 	develop and practice effective and inclusive
interpersonal skills in order to relate to others
in peaceful, tolerant, compassionate and non
• 	discriminatory ways.
• 	nourish relationships with God/the Divine/the
Numinous/the Higher Being, one’s self, others,
especially the poor and the marginalized,
the environment, and their non-human
co-dwellers, with compassion, sensitivity,
respect, integrity, and empathy.
Virtue-Guided Decision-
Maker
• 	aspire to be virtuous in thought, speech, and
action.
• 	choose values and principles that are aligned
with virtues, and decide and act in order to
reflect trustworthy character, especially
kagandahang-loob and pakikipagkapwa-tao.
• 	consider the welfare of all, especially the poor
and marginalized, including the environment,
when making impactful decisions.
• 	regularly reflect and critically examine their
subscription to certain values and are able to
transform them when needed, for the sake of
the common good and harmony.
• 	are able to discern well and transform
reflection into appropriate action.
• 	take their freedom to choose seriously
and responsibly, and have the integrity to
acknowledge their accountability.

-- 190 of 339 --

191
Technically Competent
Professional
• 	demonstrate mastery of specialized
knowledge and apply it to real world
situations.
• 	creatively use specialized knowledge to
address new problems and novel situations.
• 	achieve the convergence of humaneness,
applications, systems, and processes in
creating a work-life balance while optimizing
organizational productivity
• 	are open to collaborate with others in
different areas of expertise in order to solve
problems while staying grounded in one’s
identity and able to take a stand based on
one’s principles when necessary.
• 	apply the Lasallian Reflection Framework of
Masid Danas (Observe-Experience), Suri-
Nilay (Analysis Reflection), and Taya-Kilos
(Commitment-Action), accompanied by
Ramdam-Pakiramdam (Feeling Empathy)
when solving problems or addressing issues.

-- 191 of 339 --

192
OFFICE DIRECTORY AND CAMPUS LAYOUT
MANILA CAMPUS
TRUNK LINE NUMBER: 02 8465-8900 OR 02 8524-4611
APPENDIX E
Department/Office/Unit 	Local No. 	Room No.
1911 Insurance Agency Corporation 	277 	JH-G/F
Academic Support for Instructional Services and Technology 	563 	MH-216
Accountancy 	106, 135 	FC-G/F
Accounting 	227 	LS-133
Accounting, Budget and Fixed Assets Section 	354, 267 	LS-133
Accounting, Controller 	175 	LS-133
Accounting, Disbursement Section 	118, 352 	LS-133
Accounting, Financials Section 	119, 177 	LS-133
Accounting, Information Systems Development Section 	268 	LS-133
Accounting, Payroll 	174 	LS-133
Accounting, Science Foundation Affiliates 	138 	LS-133
Accounting, Student Accounts Extension Office 	296 	LS-133
Accounting, Student Services Section 	196 	LS-133
Admissons and Scholarships 	166 	HSSH-2/F
Admissions and Scholarships, Graduate Studies Section 	468 	HSSH-2/F
Admissions and Scholarships, Scholarships Section 	162 	HSSH-2/F
Admissions and Scholarships, Undergraduate Studies Section 	167 	HSSH-2/F
Advanced Research Institute for Informatics, Computing and Networking 	342 	GH-406
Advancement and Alumni Affairs 	107, 129 	AGH-20/F
Alumni Association 	122,128,395 	AGH-101
Animo Lab 	282 	AGH-102
Ang Pahayagang Plaridel 	701 	CH-503
Angelo King Institute for Economic and Business Studies 	287 	LS-223
Archers Network 	701 	CH-503
Asian Regional Programme on Environmental Technology 	215 	AGH-21/F
Associate Vice Chancellor for Academic Services 	597 	HSSH-1502
Associate Vice Chancellor for Campus Development 	183 	YH-610
Associate Vice Chancellor for Campus Services 	595 	HSSH-1503
Associate Vice Chancellor for Facilities Management 	599 	HSSH-1501
BAGCED, Academic Programming Officer 	266 	AGH-1603

-- 192 of 339 --

193
BAGCED, Dean 	121 	AGH-1603
BAGCED, External Affairs 	172 	AGH-1609
BAGCED, Associate Dean 	158 	AGH-1603
Behavioral Sciences 	347, 550 	FC-4/F
Bienvenido N. Santos Creative Writing Center 	233 	MH-208
Biology 	460 	WH-4/F
Biology Dispensing Laboratory 	462 	STRC-402
Biology Laboratry 	408, 409 	STRC-210
Biology Laboratory and Undergraduate Thesis 	467 	STRC-210
Biology Stockroom 	463 	STRC-208
Biotechnology Laboratory 	230 	SJ-605
Book Store 	712 	YH-G/F
Br. Alfred Shields FSC OCean Research Center 	404, 406 	HSSH-3/F
Br. Andelino Manuel Castillo FSC Religious Educational Foundation Inc. 	762 	JH-302
Brothers’ Community 	139. 140 	LS-4/F
Building and Grounds Maintenance Office 	474 	SJ-201
Campus Sustainability Office 	272 	HSSH-407
CCS, Academic Programming Officer 	303 	AGH-10/F
CCS, Dean 	300 	AGH-10/F
CCS, External Affairs 	302 	AGH-10/F
CCS, Research and Advanced Studies 	302 	AGH-10/F
CCS, Technical Support Group 	302 	AGH-10/F
CCS, Associate Dean 	301 	AGH-10/F
Center for Business Research and Development 	149 	FC-G/F
Center for Engineering and Sustainable Development Research 	275 	VH-102C
Center for Language and Lifelong Learning 	403 	AGH-1503
Center for Language Technologies 	391 	GH-409
Center for Lean Systems and Management 	223 	STRC-223
Center for Micro-Hydro Technology for Rural Electrification 	273 	MH-113 <Mezzanine
Center for Natural Sciences and Environmental Research 	404, 406 	SJ-206
Center for Professional Development in Business 	396 	FC-G/F
Center for Social Concern and Action 	147, 417 	CH-202
Office of the Provost, Administrative Officer 	801 	HSSH-1507
Office of the Provost, Executive Officer 	809 	HSSH-1507
CHED PHERNet Sustainability Studies Program 	127 	HSSH-3/F
Chemical Engineering 	218 	AGH-8/F
Chemical Engineering Energy Laboratory 	211 	STRC-107
Chemical Engineering Instrumentation Room 	214 	STRC-215
Department/Office/Unit 	Local No. 	Room No.

-- 193 of 339 --

194
Chemical Engineering Engineering Laboratory 	243 	VH-412
Chemistry 	430 	WH-5/F
Chemistry Instrument and Research 	501 	SJ-512
Chemistry Laboratory 	212 	VH-410
Chemistry Laboratory 	429 	SJ-313
Chemistry Laboratory 	431 	SJ-615
Chemistry Laboratory 	432 	SJ-508
Chemistry Laboratory 	502 	STRC-308
Chemistry Laboratory Instructors 	366 	MH-401
Chemistry Teaching Laboratory 	430 	WH-5/F
Civil and Sanitary Works Office 	475 	SJ-201
Civil Engineering 	226 	AGH-8/F
Civil Engineering Laboraory 	305 	STRC-103
CLA, Academic Programming Officer 	327 	FC-G/F
CLA, Dean 	325 	FC-G/F
CLA, External Affairs 	216 	FC-G/F
CLA, Research and Advanced Studies 	328 	FC-G/F
CLA, Associate Dean 	326 	FC-G/F
Commercial Law 	132 	FC-2/F
Communication 	322 	FC-3/F
Computational Chemistry Laboratory 	405 	STRC-301
Computational Materials Design Research Group 	422 	STRC-315
Computer Engineering Laboratory 	253 	VH-313
Computer Laboratory, Gokongwei Hall 	341 	GH-404
Computer Laboratory, Gokongwei Hall 	384 	GH-306A/B
Computer Laboratory, Gokongwei Hall 	385 	GH-304A
Computer Laboratory, Gokongwei Hall 	386 	GH-304B
Computer Laboratory, Gokongwei Hall 	387 	GH-302A/B
Computer Laboratory, Gonzalez Hall 	258 	AGH-1706
Computer Laboratory, St. Joseph Hall 	418 	SJ-212
Computer Laboratory, St. La Salle Hall 	193 	LS-212
Computer Laboratory, St. La Salle Hall 	219 	LS-229
Computer Laboratory, St. La Salle Hall 	382 	LS-335
Computer Laboratory, St. La Salle Hall 	505 	LS-320
Computer Laboratory, Velasco Hall 	213 	VH-103
Computer Laboratory, Velasco Hall 	242 	VH-208B
Computer Laboratory, Velasco Hall 	364 	VH-301
Computer Laboratory, Velasco Hall 	383 	VH-310

-- 194 of 339 --

195
Computer Laboratory, Yuchengco Hall 	351 	YH-602
Computer Technology 	306 	AGH-10/F
Computer Technology Laboratory 	292 	GH-408
Consulting and Education Center 	304 	GH-102
Continuing Education Office 	390 	AGH-21/F
COS, Dean 	520 	WH-2/F
COS, External Affairs 	522 	WH-2/F
COS, Associate Dean 	521 	WH-2/F
Council of Student Organizations 	744 	CH-403
Counseling and Career Services Extension Office 	389 	AGH-1505
Counseling and Career Services, Career Services Unit 	416 	CH-203
Counseling and Career Services, Counseling Unit 	419 	CH-203
Counseling and Educational Psychology 	172 	AGH-1609
Concierge 	400 	YH-G/F
Credit Cooperative 	750 	JH-205
Culture and Arts Office 	702, 737 	CH-505
Culture and Arts Office, Rehearsal Room 	311 	ERSC-204
Data Privacy Office 	811 	LS-124
Decision Sciences and Innovation 	134, 188 	FC-2/F
Decision Sciences and Innovation, Business Incubator 	125 	LS-108
DOST Science Education Institute 	343 	LS-229 Mezzanine
ECE Electrical/Electronics Laboratory 	711 	VH-403
ECE Extension Office 	565 	MH-116
ECE Research Laboratory Coordinator’s Office 	207 	STRC-1112
ECE STRC-EC Laboratory 	206 	STRC-112
Economics 	137 	LS-324
Educational Leadership and Management 	171, 195 	AGH-1610
Electrical Laboratory 	312 	MH-402
Electronics and Communications Engineering 	224 	AGH-8/F
Electronics and Instrumentation Laboratory 	465 	STRC-414
Employees Association 	754 	JH-201
Engineering Research and Development for Technology 	324 	AGH-910
English and Applied Linguistics 	530, 562, 564 	AGH-1501
English Language Laboratory 	340 	AGH-1408
Enrollment Services Hub - Help Desk 	114 	HSSH-2/F
Enterprise Resource Planning - BITUIN 	458 	LS-203
Ergonomics and Product Design Laboratory 	209 	STRC-218
Faculty Association 	332 	FC-G/F

-- 195 of 339 --

196
Filipino 	509, 552 	FC-3/F
Financial Management 	133 	FC-2/F
Food Institute 	401 	HSSH-3/F
Former President 	247 	HSSH-1507
GCOE, Dean 	229 	AGH-908
GCOE, External Affairs 	278 	AGH-910
GCOE, Laboratories 	210 	AGH-910
GCOE, Research and Advanced Studies 	217 	AGH-910
GCOE, Transportation Laboratory 	231 	MH-104A
GCOE, Associate Dean 	201 	AGH-909
Graduate Student Council 	733 	CH-401
Green and White 	205 	CH-503
Green GIant FM 	208 	BH-G/F
Health Services Office 	221 	VH-101
Health Services Office Extenstion 	334 	ERSC-G/F
History 	461, 572 	FC-3/F
Industrial Engineering 	220 	AGH-8/F
Information Systems Laboratory 	284 	VH-506
Information Technology 	307 	AGH-810/F
Information Technology Services Office 	310 	GH-308
Innovation and Technology Office 	248 	LS-114
Institutional Testing and Evalutation Office 	143, 168 	HSSH-4/F
Intellect Seminar Room 	355 	GH-101
Intellectual Property Office 	279 	HSSH-3/F
Intelligent Systems Laboratory 	353 	MH-106
International Center 	289 	SJ-207
International Studies 	545 	FC-4/F
Inventory Management Office 	190, 191 	Warehouse - 101
ITS, Asset Management 	317 	GH-303
ITS, Systems Management and Services 	309 	GH-308
ITS, Technology Infrastrstucture and Assets 	349 	GH-305
ITS, Technology Support and Laboratories - Help Desk 	316, 466 	GH-305
ITS, Web Management and Documentation 	318 	GH-309
Jesse M. Robredo Institute of Governance 	524 	YH-601
Lasallian Core Curriculum Office 	156 	AGH-1504
Lasallian Institute for Development and Educational Research 	435 	AGH-1603
Lasallian Pastoral Office 	104, 410 	SJ-101
Lasallian Pastoral Office, Chaplain 	412 	SJ-103

-- 196 of 339 --

197
Laser and Optics Laboratory 	424 	STRC-313
Legal Counsel 	173 	HSSH-1410
Libraries 	600 	HSSH-6/F
Libraries, Acquisition Section 	610 	HSSH-6/F
Libraries, American Studies Resource Center 	265 	HSSH-14/F
Libraries, Archives Section 	640, 621 	HSSH-10/F
Libraries, Br. Benedict Learning Resoruce Center 	288 	AGH-1804
Libraries, Cataloguing 	601 	HSSH-5/F
Libraries, Circulation Section 	622 	HSSH-8/F
Libraries, European Documentation Center 	602 	HSSH-14/F
Libraries, Filipiniana Section 	262 	HSSH-10/F
Libraries, Information Desk 	262 	HSSH-6/F
Libraries, Media and Systems Service 	370 	HSSH-6/F
Libraries, Periodicals Section 	291 	HSSH-9/F
Libraries, Reference Section 	620 	HSSH-7/F
Literature 	532, 541 	FC-3/F
Malate Library Folio 	701 	CH-503
Management and Organization 	381 	FC-G/F
Manufacturing Engineering and Management 	244 	AGH-8/F
Marketing and Advertising 	136 	FC-2/F
Math and Statistics Computer Laboratory 	407 	STRC-314
Mathematics 	420 	WH-6/F
Mathematics Reserach Office 	413 	SJ-205
Matrix Laboratory 	263 	GH-403
ME Bench Work and Fabrication Shop Laboratory 	255 	MH-108
ME Machine Shop and Foundry Laboratory 	254 	VH-105
ME Power and Thermodynamics Laboratory 	254 	MH-110
Mechanical and Electrical Works Office 	477 	SJ-201
Mechanical Engineering 	299, 308 	AGH-8/F
Mechatronics Laboratory 	503 	STRC-105
MEM Comp. Aided Three-Dimensional Interactive Application 	241 	VH-109
MEM Comp. Numeric Control/Comp. Integrated Manufacturing Laboratory 	240 	H-106
Molecular Science Unit Biology CENSER 	372 	STRC-205
Multipurpose Room 	506 	HSSH-4/F
Nano Laboratory 	425 	STRC-113
NSTP and Formation Office 	436 	GH-102
Operation Big Brother 	142 	AGH-1803
Pablo Nicolas Seminar Room 	363 	LS-315

-- 197 of 339 --

198
Parents of University Students Organization 	764 	JH-304
Personal Effectiveness Office 	250 	AGH-1803
CCHRSO 	680 	HSSH-3/F
CCHRSO - Front Desk 	676 	HSSH-3/F
Philosophy 	546 	FC-4/F
Physical Education 	740 	ERSC-702
Physics 	450 	WH-7/F
Physics Supplies Room 	452 	SJ-409
Political Science 	570 	FC-4/F
Practical Genomics Laboratory, CENSER 	406 	STRC-412
President’s Office, Executive Assistant 	802 	HSSH-1507
President and Provost, Reception 	803 	HSSH-1507
Procurement Office 	630 	Warehouse-101
Project Management Office 	181 	YH-610
Psychology 	542 	FC-4/F
Psyhcology Laboratory 	752 	SJ-308
Psychometric and Assessment Laboratory 	329 	MH-207
Publishing House 	271 	YH-601
Quality Assurance Office 	567, 582 	HSHH-1506
Radio and TV Studio Laboratory 	321 	MH-209
Registrar 	245 	HSSH-2/F
Registrar, Enrollment and Evaluation Section 	116 	HSSH-2/F
Senior Financial Consultant to the President 	592 	LS-133
Senior High School, Front Desk 	160, 161 	LS-118
Senior High School, Office of the Principal 	169 	LS-123
Senior High School, SDFO 	330 	LS-122
Senior High School, Student Affairs Office/Guidance Counseling Office 	331 	LS-121
Social Development Research Center 	402 	WH-3/F
SOE, Dean 	380 	LS-221
SOE, Associate Dean 	380 	LS-221
Software Technology 	313 	AGH-10/F
Sports Development 	379, 742 	ERSC-901
Sports Development, Physical Fitness and Rehabilitation Center 	197 	ERSC-9/F
Office for Strategic Communications (STRATCOM) 	144, 246, 374 	AGH-21/F
Strategic Management 	582 	HSSH-1506
Student Affairs, Dean 	730 	CH-301
Student Affairs, Associate Dean 	276 	CH-301
Student Discipline Formation Office 	414 	SJ-115

-- 198 of 339 --

199
Student Discipline Formation Office, Discipline and Endorsement Section 	611 	MH-115A
Student Discipline Formation Office, Discipline Educ, Advocacy and
Program Section
611 	MH-115B
Student Discipline Formation Office, Lost and Found and Clearance Section 290 	SJ-105
Student Leadership Involvement, Formation and Empowerment 	732, 739 	CH-404
Student Media Office 	738 	CH-501
Support Services Office 	766 	HSSH-407
Support Services Office, Mailing Unit 	151 	LS-106
Support Services Office, Materials Reproduction Unit 	170 	LS-125
Support Services Office, Transportation Unit 	148 	HSSH-407
Surface Physica Laboratory 	423 	STRC-311
Research Grants and Management Office 	164 	HSSH-3/F
Teresa Yuchengco Auditorium 	283 	YH-7/F
The LaSallian 	701 	CH-503
The Museum 	368 	YH-2/F
The Store 	724 	YH-G/F
Theology and Religious Education 	199, 534 	FC-3/F
Tokyo Institute of Technology - Philippine Office 	232 	VH-510
Unit Operations and Refrigeration Laboratory 	234 	VH-102
Univeristy Fellows 	270 	YH-2/F
University Safety Office 	123 	HSSH-406
University Safety Office, Lifeguard 	533 	ERSC-G/F
University Student Government 	734 	CH-302
Vice President for Academics 	108, 109 	HSSH-1508
Vice President for Administration 	557 	HSSH-1504
Vice President for Research and Innovation 	401 	HSSH-3/F
Vice Presidentfor DLSU - Lagunda Campus (Extension Office) 	576 	LS-118
Vice President for External Relations and Internationalization Office 	163, 574 	HSSH-1505
Vice President for Lasallian Mission 	120, 280 	HSSH-1511
Vocations Ministry Office 	159 	LS-115
William Shaw Little Theater 	314 	WH-103
Yuchengco Center 	165 	YH-2/F
Yuchengco Seminar Room 	336, 337 	YH-407,408,409

-- 199 of 339 --

200
HOTLINE NUMBERS
LEGEND
GATE NUMBERS
Service 	Local No. 	Building
Emergency 	111 	St. La Salle Hall
Health Services 	222 	Br. Gabriel Conon FSC Hall
Health Services 	333 	Enrique M. Razon Sports Center
Security 	444 	St. La Salle Hall
Security 	555 	Br. Andrew B. Gonzalez FSC Hall
Facilities 	666 	Henry Sy Sr. Hall
Reservation 	777 	Henry Sy Sr. Hall
Gate Label 	Local No.
Gate 1 (South) 	481
Gate 2 (North) 	482
Gate 3 (Velasco) 	483
Gate 4 (Gokongwei) 	484
Gate 5 (Andrew) 	485
Gate 6 (STRC) 	487
Gate (Leveriza) 	489
Acronym 	College/Building
AGH 	Br. Andrew B. Gonzalez FSC Hall
BAGCED 	Br. Andrew B. Gonzalez FSC College of Education
BH 	Br. Alphonsus Bloemen FSC Hall
CCS 	College of Computer Studies
CH 	Br. Gabriel Connon FSC Hall
CLA 	College of Liberal Arts
COS 	College of Science
ERSC 	Enrique M. Razon Sports Center
FC 	Faculty Center

-- 200 of 339 --

201
GCOE 	Gokongwei Collge of Engineering
GH 	John Gokongwei Sr. Hall
HSSH 	Henry S. Sy Sr. Hall
JH 	Br. Celba John FSC Hall
LS 	St. La Salle Hall
MH 	St. Miguel Febres Cordero Hall
RVRCOB 	Ramon V. del Rosario Collge of Business
SJ 	St. Joseph Hall
SOE 	School of Economics
SOL 	School of Law
STRC 	Science and Technology Research Center
VH 	Urbano J. Velasco Hall
WH 	William J. Shaw Hall
YH 	Don Enrique T. Yuchengco Hall
MAKATI CAMPUS
TRUNK LINE NUMBER: 753-4611
Cnt 	Department/Office/unit 	Room 	Local No. 	Direct
Line
1 	Switch Board Operator 	Dialo 0 	753-4616
2 	Enrollment Services Hub 	XR0501 	111
3 	Enrollment Services Hub 	XR0501 	112
4 	Health Services Office 	XR0518 	106
5 	Director for Satellite Campus
Facilities
XR0521 	101
6 	Libraries 	XR0504 	103
7 	CPDBE 	XR0523a 	105 	753-4617
8 	RVRCOB, Associate Dean 	XR0521 	107 	753-4618

-- 201 of 339 --

202
Department/Office/Unit 	Local No.
Accounting 	604
COL, Academic Programming Officer 	611
COL, Dean 	606
COL, Associate Dean 	608
Counseling and Career Services 	701
Director for Satellite Campus Facilities 	601
Enrollment Services Hub 	602
Facilities Management Group 	103
Health Services Office 	613
Information Technology Services Office - Helpdesk 	603
Libraries 	703
Libraries, Instructional Media Services 	704
Security Office 	102
Security Office, Receptionist 	101
Security Office, Switch Board Operator 	100
Students Affairs, Dean 	700
Student Discipline Formation Office 	702
Service 	Local No.
Emergency 	111
Health Services 	222
Security 	444
Facilties 	666
RUFINO CAMPUS
TRUNK LINE NUMBER: 753-0000 OR 877-9244
HOTLINE NUMBERS

-- 202 of 339 --

203
Given the hybrid setting, students may communicate with the
University’s administrative offices, they could communicate with them
through the University’s hotline: (632) 8524-4611 / 8465-8900 or
through the respective email addresses found below:
Office 	E-mail
Office of the President 	president@dlsu.edu.ph
Office of the Provost 	provost@dlsu.edu.ph
Office of the University Registrar 	registrar@dlsu.edu.ph
Finance and Accounting Office 	cashiers@dlsu.edu.ph
accounting@dlsu.edu.ph
Office of Admissions and
Scholarships
Undergraduate Admission:
admission.requirements@dlsu.
edu.ph
Graduate Admission: graduate.
admissions@dlsu.edu.ph
Scholarships: scholarships@dlsu.
edu.ph
VIA MOBILE
Undergraduate Admissions:
0927-760-6560 (Globe)
0999-363-6546 (Smart)
Graduate Admissions:
0927-985-1103 (Globe)
Scholarships:
0961-008-4354 (Smart)
Libraries 	library@dlsu.edu.ph
Office of Student Affairs 	dsa@dlsu.edu.ph
Office of Counseling and Career
Services
occs@dlsu.edu.ph
Student Discipline Formation
Office
sdfo@dlsu.edu.ph
Lasallian Center for Inclusion,
Diversity, and Well-Being
lcidw@dlsu.edu.ph
Office of the Executive Director
for Campus Services
campus.services@dlsu.edu.ph
Office of the Associate Provost 	academic.services@dlsu.edu.ph
Office of Vice President
for External Relations and
Internationalization
erio@dlsu.edu.ph

-- 203 of 339 --

204
CAMPUS LAYOUT - MANILA CAMPUS

-- 204 of 339 --

205
CAMPUS LAYOUT - LAGUNA CAMPUS

-- 205 of 339 --

206
APPENDIX F
UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS
Council of Student Organizations
ACCESS
The Council of Student Organizations (CSO) is the union of
accredited professional (PROF), special interest (SPIN) and
socio-civic organizations of De La Salle University. Since its
founding in 1974, the Council has continuously delivered
quality student services and has produced outstanding
student leaders dedicated to serving and contributing to
the Lasallian Community.
To support the preparation, execution, and documentation
of the activities, projects, and initiatives of the accredited
organizations, nine Executive Teams work under the supervision of the CSO Executive
Board.
The CSO Executive Board also serves as the coordinating body of the Council and
oversees the implementation of university-wide activities participated in by the
different organizations. These activities include the Annual Recruitment Week (ARW),
Green Card Alliance (GCA), the Lasallian Excellence Awards (LEA) and the Lasallian
Enrichment Alternative Program (LEAP) which is a joint venture of the Council of
Student Organizations and the University Student Government.
The DLSU-CSO is also a founding member of the Philippine Union of Lasallian Student
Organizations (PULSO) which is an alliance between the CSOs and its counterparts in
the 11 Lasallian Tertiary Institutions in the Philippines.
Our contemporary society has increasingly embraced
the use of technology in many aspects of human life. One
with the Lasallian mission, the Association of Computer
Engineering Students (ACCESS) breeds the leaders of
tomorrow in this field by inspiring its members to advance
a culture that values innovation in the realm of computer
engineering while having a deep sense of their social
responsibility as members of a civilization being brought
closer by technology. The Association seeks to enrich the
Lasallian experience of its members by implementing high
quality and exciting activities that would provide students an avenue to explore their
potentials and employ their skills in their quest for excellence to uplift the quality of
life of every individual in society.

-- 206 of 339 --

207
Ad Create
AIESEC
AMSTUD
The AdCreate Society is DLSU’s professional
organization for advertising management
majors, as well as to those who want
to engage their ideas and explore their
creativity by letting its members imagine,
create, and achieve.
Members are able to IMAGINE the endless possibilities with the potential that they
have through AdCreate’s seminars and workshops from only the best of the best
in the advertising, marketing, and communications industry. AdCreate also hones
the creative skills of its members by letting them CREATE their best work through
Monster Academy—a crash course on Photoshop and Illustrator. AdCreate also lets its
members ACHIEVE by hosting contests held by companies in the real world, as well
as freelance projects, which are undoubtedly value-adding to any student’s creative
portfolio.
Given all these, members of the organization not only enjoy the benefits of it being a
member-oriented organization, but also the opportunity to collaborate, to grow, and to
be part of a family.
AIESEC is a global youth-
led organization striving
to achieve peace and
fulfillment of humankind’s potential by activating leadership qualities in youth through
learning from practical experiences in challenging environments. Together with
partner organizations, AIESEC facilitates a network of cross-cultural exchanges in the
form of volunteering experiences and professional internships.
The Organization for American Studies (AMSTUD) is the
home organization for American Studies majors and
enthusiasts in De La Salle University. It envisions itself as a
professional student organization that seeks to promote the
culture and ideals of the American society to the globalized
world and to be fully recognized by various governmental and
non-governmental institutions in the Philippines.
AMSTUD serves as an instrument for De La Salle University to
achieve prominent international status and will provide the
means and education to keep the members abreast with the
local and international affairs which habitually involves the United States of America
and the significant trends in the American society and culture that can contribute to
the members’ self-development and to the nation in the long-run.

-- 207 of 339 --

208
Archers for UNICEF
BMS
BSS
Archers for UNICEF is the official De La
Salle University chapter of United Nations
Children’s Emergency Fund Philippines
(UNICEF Philippines). With its family of
volunteers, AU aims to enact on its mission of
targeting a haven for the children.
While being a leg of the Private Partnership
and Fundraising Division of UNICEF, the
organization serves as an avenue to raise
national awareness and enact on prominent
social issues as well, through student volunteers with the compassion to address the
negligence of basic children’s rights. The organization aims to fulfill St. John Baptist
De La Salle’s vision of an empowered society with AU envisioning a brighter future for
the children through the integration of Lasallian values depicted in various charitable
endeavors.
Throughout the years of sustained excellence, the Business
Management Society is one of the top professional
student organizations in De La Salle University. The
organization takes pride in its dedicated members whose
holistic formation is honed through academic excellence,
organizational innovation, personal development, and
social responsibility. This institution shapes competent
business leaders who will soon be the catalysts of nation
building, social dependability, and economic development.
The Business Management Society caters to Business Management, Applied
Corporate Management, and Interdisciplinary Business Studies students. It is
committed to fostering passionate student leaders, maximizing potentials, and
providing developmental opportunities for Lasallian business students.
The Behavioral Sciences Society (BSS) serves
as the official organization of the Behavioral
Sciences degree programs (AB-OSDM &
AB-SPM). It is committed in implementing
academic, socio-civic, and developmental
activities that benefit the Behavioral Sciences
community. It envisions a student organization
that initiates, organizes, and leads projects
that employ perspectives found in Behavioral
Sciences courses such as social research, organizational development, human
resource management, and program development.

-- 208 of 339 --

209
CES
CHEMSOC
Civil Engineering Society, also known as CES, is
a well-recognized and accredited professional
organization for Civil Engineering students of De La
Salle University-Manila. Serving the students since
1986, the organization aims to nurture and to shape
its members to become not only intellectually
competent, but also driven by social responsibility
and awareness. Over the years, CES has been
bridging connections and creating opportunities to
make sure its members are built to build their future,
and are guided by the Lasallian faith. Through the
Society’s innovation of diverse and holistic activities,
the Society has become a home and training ground
for Lasallian students to become achievers for God and country, and to develop into
individuals in pursuit of excellence.
Being the only accredited organization in DLSU for Civil Engineering students, CES
offers multifold activities that would enhance the students’ characters and develop
their skills such as: leadership and career trainings that prepares them for life
outside the university; academic events that trains the mind, improves the students
competence and assists students in their academic needs; and socio-civic programs
that provides students the opportunities to create a mark and make a change for a
better future. It’s through these interactions that the Civil Engineering Society slowly
grows a familial bond amongst each other through the spirit of camaraderie and
friendship.
The Chemistry Society, hereunto known as
ChemSoc, is the professional organization of
aspiring Chemistry majors. For the past years, it
has embodied its exemplification of providing
a deeper understanding of chemistry to others.
Established for its testaments of developing
students, ChemSoc cultivates ideas that
transcend the potentials of its constituents.
It is dedicated to the holistic development of
its members by providing activities involving
personal, career, spiritual, and societal
involvement. The Chemistry Society aims to
enhance the everyday appreciation of science by developing innovative and complex
projects through basic ideas.

-- 209 of 339 --

210
CHEN
CULTURA
DANUM
The Chemical Engineering
Society is a service-oriented
organization in De La Salle
University whose main purpose
is to mold future Chemical
Engineers who embody
the Lasallian core values. In
alignment with its purpose,
ChEn aims to accomplish its
four missions, mainly: C - Complementing the department’s efforts in developing
well-rounded Lasallian Chemical Engineers, H - Highlighting the role of the Chemical
Engineering profession in the society, E - Elevating the standards of the organization
to excellence, and N- Nurturing the existing relationship among faculty, members,
officers, other organizations, and other technical staff.
Ready to cultivate the Lasallian community
through versatile minds and revolutionary
ideas. Diverse in perception, united by one
vision:
As an organization led by literature majors, its resolve lies in community building.
Cultura works toward spreading the idea that opens people to many cultures and
cultural practices that define human experience in the ways simplest or complex.
The approach is simple: acquaintance to cultural studies education. Despite the
rigidity, “education” encompasses its formal terms and covers all forms of learning
including discourse, immersion, even experimentation. Essentially, art and culture
cannot be measured, only experienced.
Dalubhasaan ng mga Umuusbong na Mag-
aaral ng Araling Filipino (DANUM), ang nag-
iisang organisasyon naglalayong payabungin
ang wika at kultura na ipinamana sa atin sa
pamamagitan ng midya. Kami ang opisyal
na organisasyon ng programang Batsilyer ng
Sining sa Araling Pilipinas Medyor sa Filipino
sa Mass Media o AB-PHS. Patuloy na ipinagdidiwang ang sining ng mga manlilikhang
makabayan para sa bansang sinilangan.

-- 210 of 339 --

211
ECES
ECO
The Electronics and Communications Engineering
Society, commonly known as ECES, is a professional
organization that caters to ECE students, Lasallian
electronics hobbyists and individuals fascinated by
electronics and communications technologies.
ECES serves the members by aiding in their academic
growth through tutorials, reviewer distributions, STRC
lab access, plant visits, and annual quiz bees. Moreover,
it does its best to develop its members’ skills through
activities whose nature is of their interest like the numerous sports activities, career
seminars and computer/electronics related competitions, and conventions. ECES
has also served the community through its annual outreach program and other
socio-civic activities. In addition, ECES continues to have strong ties with its national
and international organization counterparts, namely, Institute of Electronics &
Communications Engineers of the Philippines (IECEP), and Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (IEEE).
As one of the best premier organizations of DLSU, ECES has been continuously
receiving awards from different award giving bodies. ECES was recognized Most
Outstanding Organization in the Lasallian Excellence Awards 2001, 2003, and 2008-
2010. Furthermore, ECES was recognized as DLSU’s #1 Professional Organization for
two straight years (2008-2010).
De La Salle University Environmental
Conservation Organization started
on October 1, 2013 at De La Salle
University – Laguna Campus (formerly
Science and Technology Complex).
The organization commits to pursue
the members personal growth and
development through various environmental and outdoor activities that promote
environmental awareness as well as disaster preparedness, as active members of a
dynamic and progressive De La Salle community and to the nation as a whole.

-- 211 of 339 --

212
ECONORG
ENGLICOM
The Economics Organization is a professional organization
based at De La Salle University-Manila. Its main goals are
to hone students into paragons of academic excellence
and beacons of service, to strengthen social involvement,
and to promote personal growth among its members
by serving as a link of communication and involvement
among sectors of the community. The organization
initiates programs and projects that establish
camaraderie, and reinforce academic learning among
members through various activities that incorporate the
Lasallian mission – Religio, Mores, et Cultura – and through
formal linkages with internal and external sectors whose goals and objectives are
cognate and parallel to that of the organization.
ENGLICOM, founded in 1964, is an abbreviation of the
three initial colleges at the time - Engineering, Liberal
Arts, and Commerce. Being one of the oldest and most
diverse among the numerous organizations in De La
Salle University, ENGLICOM was created with a vision
to promote cultural harmony, social awareness and
nation-building among the Filipino and Chinese-Filipino
students. With this in mind, the organization promotes
its mission through the four pillars supporting its core
values; namely: socio-civic, social, cultural, and leadership
development. By offering such diverse programs,
ENGLICOM inspires excellence and passion through its dedication to students and to
its fellow countrymen - helping the university in molding Lasallian achievers for God
and country.

-- 212 of 339 --

213
ESA
GAS
The European Studies Association is made of European
studies majors and members who have a keen in interest
in the western region’s history, culture, and fad. ESA help its
members in maximizing opportunities that can help them
in their future careers and make the most out of there are
of study. We have embassy visits, language tutorials, career
talk, and seminars provided by the European diplomats.
ESA is the first student organization to be recognized by
the Commission of the European Community and is also
endorsed by all European Embassies in the Philippines; as such, it plays a vital role in
motivating its members and the Lasallian community towards strengthening Asian-
European relations.
The European Studies Association, also, aims to foster both local and global
understanding through cultural, social, and academic education. It also strives to
promote awareness, knowledge, learning, and application of significant national
and global issues that contribute to self-development and national progress. The
organization achieves its goals by providing and organizing learning opportunities
such as interactions with diplomats and significant social figures, academic talks and
seminars, and cultural activities.
Gakuen Anime Soshiki is a special interest
organization that caters to students interested in
Japanese media culture such as anime, manga,
cosplay, games, music and the like. GAS aims
to create an interactive and socially relevant
community of people with common interests;
and inspire, encourage and enhance the skills
and talents of its members through their
common interests. Based in De La Salle University - Laguna Campus in Biñan, Laguna,
it accepts members from its home-campus and De La Salle University – Taft.

-- 213 of 339 --

214
IMES
JEMA
One of the professional organization under the Council
of Student Organizations, is recognized as the Industrial
Management Engineering Society (IMES), and is geared
towards serving Industrial Engineering, Industrial
Management Engineering Minor in Information Technology
and Industrial Management Engineering Minor in Service
Management students.
As a professional organization in De La Salle University, the
Industrial Management Engineering Society (IMES) aims
to cultivate unity and competence across all Industrial Management Engineering
Society (IMES) members. It serves as a guide and an aid to the academic needs of
its members. Acts as an avenue for job placements and/or initiate activities for this
objective. Moreover, it to initiates activities geared towards the interaction and unity
of all Industrial Management Engineering Society (IMES) members.
Hence, just like the course it represents, IMES optimizes the development of its
members not only by supporting them in their academics but also by exposing them
in different extra- curricular, developmental, socio-civic, and spiritual activities.
“There’s always a Better way” in the Industrial Management Engineering Society just
like its course manifests.
The Junior Entrepreneurs’ Marketing Association (JEMA)
is the professional organization for both marketing
and non-marketing students who aim to develop and
enhance their marketing and entrepreneurial skills.
In line with this, JEMA provides for the growth and
development of its members through quality service
and works of excellence, producing valuable assets to society.

-- 214 of 339 --

215
JEMA
KAUNLARAN
LLS
The Junior Philippine Institute of Accountants (JPIA)
is the premier professional student organization for
accountancy students in De La Salle University. With
more than 60 years of providing quality activities to
its members, JPIA produces well-rounded individuals
who are technically competent to do their business
engagements and know how to enjoy and live life to the
fullest. It complements the academic training of future
CPAs through book service, tutorials, and supplementary
lectures. With its motto of “Bringing Balance to Life”
JPIA also spearheads non-academic and socio-civic activities which empower and
strengthen each and everyone’s individuality and sense of responsibility. Outside
the university, JPIA is a member of the National Federation of the Junior Philippine
Institute of Accountants (NFJPIA), an organization comprising of different local JPIA
chapters which share the same goal of molding highly qualified and competent future
accountants in order to promote and improve the business sector of the country.
Envisioning itself as a learning organization whose
members – animated by faith, service, and communion
– engage in holistic development work and good
governance for nation building. Kaunlaran dreams of the
Philippines as a nation of empowered communities and a
just society.
Its mission is to advocate for the relevant and integrative
application of various academic disciplines in the interest
of marginalized or basic sectors in the Philippine society. It promotes awareness of
development theory and practice, trains youth leaders toward responsible citizenship,
and helps build and sustain various forms of university and community partnerships.
LEY LA SALLE was established in 1988 for the sole purpose
of highlighting service and advocacy directed at its legal
management student members and other constituents
of the academe. Throughout its 20+ years of operations,
Ley’s achievements in the field of promoting relevant and
adequate legal intuition has been a generous source of
pride not just for its members, but also for the La Salle
administration. Undoubtedly, Ley is still and will continue
to be the most highly regarded professional organization
under the Council of Student Organizations.

-- 215 of 339 --

216
LSCS
MAFIA
MC
La Salle Computer Society (LSCS) is the only professional
organization in the College of Computer Studies accredited
by the Council of Student Organizations in De La Salle
University. For 30 years, LSCS has been committed in the
holistic development of its members’ skill and knowledge
through academic and non-academic activities, and
seminars. These activities aim to provide avenues to the
students to learn things that are beyond the requirements
of their academic subjects and to deepen their interest in
technology and the industry.
The Management of Financial Institutions Association,
founded in 1978, is a duly recognized professional
organization of De La Salle University that caters to
Management of Financial Institutions majors, and is open
to those who want to learn more about the different
aspects in Finance.
The organization believes in nurturing the talents of its
members by opening opportunities that would develop
the best version of themselves through personal
development, academic excellence, social awareness,
and leadership seminars and workshops. The Management of Financial Institutions
Association also strives to provide an organization that the members could call their
home.
The DLSU Mathematics Circle is an organization for
all undergraduate Mathematics enthusiasts. Inspired
by the teachings of St. John Baptist de La Salle, the
organization envisions a society to committed proactive
leaders who have the passion for mathematics and the
dedication to share this passion with others. Through
the years, the organization continuously pursues
mathematical research, mathematical appreciation,
membership involvement, and nation building, among
others. The organization believes that it is through these
four areas of development that the organization unites with the University’s mission
of becoming Lasallian Christian Achievers for God and Country. By being part of the
Circle, we cultivate an atmosphere where students will be able to utilize the greatest
tool mankind has ever produced - Mathematics.

-- 216 of 339 --

217
MES
NKK
The Mechanical Engineering Society (MES) is the
primary professional student-based organization of
the Mechanical Engineering program in De La Salle
University–Manila. Founded on the year 1977, MES-
DLSU is one of the oldest engineering organizations in
DLSU. Mechanical Engineering chapter organizations
such as PSME, ASME, and ASHRAE are all under the
Mechanical Engineering Society.
The objectives of the MES are:
• 	to help in the development of its members’ competence in the field of
Mechanical Engineering.
• 	to promote the mission statement of DLSU: “religio, mores, et cultura”, and
ensure the intellectual, social, and moral well-being and growth of all its
members.
• 	to foster a positive relationship and understanding between the members of the
society, the faculty, and the administration of the University.
• 	to align the goals and serve as the supervisor of the following organizations:
American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers – De
La Salle University – Manila Student Chapter (ASHRAE DLSU Student Chapter),
American Society of Mechanical Engineers – De La Salle University Student
Section (ASME DLSU Student Section), and Philippine Society of Mechanical
Engineers – De La Salle University Student Unit (PSME – DLSUSU).
Nihon Kenkyuu Kai or the Japan Studies Society is the
professional organization for Japanese Studies Majors of De
La Salle University, and for students who are interested in
Japan. NKK fosters mutual understanding in building bridges
of friendship between Filipinos and Japanese by hosting
events that showcase Japanese culture, customs, language
and society for all students who are interested in Japan.
Nihon Kenkyū Kai accommodates the academic needs of
the Japanese Studies Majors while also serving as a channel
to Japan-related topics of interest for non-Japanese Studies Majors. Our organization
promotes a friendly atmosphere among all its members and ensures a dynamic
exchange of ideas and culture related to Japan.

-- 217 of 339 --

218
OC
PHYSOC
PILOSOPO
The DLSU Outdoor Club is a leading college outdoor club in
the Philippines committed to provide vast outdoor activities,
to develop nationalistic and competitive members, and to
produce prime movers for sustainable development. Where
the members believe in the nature’s intrinsic worth and
also provide recreational opportunity, spiritual renewal, and
ecological and economic health for the country. By becoming
involved in the outdoors, people come to understand the value
of a clean and healthy environment. They learn to appreciate
the delicate balance of nature while experiencing the recreational opportunities that
nature has to offer. The organization will build a constituency of dedicated individuals
The Physics Society’s members comprise of mostly Physics
Majors, Engineering students, and physics enthusiasts among the
Lasallian community. We conduct activities include, though not
limited to, field trips, leadership training, and activities that aim to
encourage students to appreciate physics in their everyday lives.
Samahan ng mga Lasalyanong Pilosopo is the professional
student organization of philosophy majors who envision a
community of individuals who are enthused of the search for
the truth, thereby making it a community of critical and liberal
thinkers, a community of individuals who are brave enough to
be heard and are pro-active, and also, are appreciative of the
mysteries of human existence. Our mission is to establish the
organization that is student-friendly, driven to achieve the ideals
set forth by the objectives of St. John Baptist de La Salle, and provide opportunities
not just to the members but to the whole community as well to appreciate the
significance of Philosophy in our daily lives.

-- 218 of 339 --

219
POLISCY
ROTARACT
SDH
The Political Science Society is the oldest political
organization in De La Salle University-Manila and it
was established in 1984 for those individuals who are
interested in learning more about the socio-political and
economic structures in our society. Its vision and mission is
grounded upon the role of uplifting student awareness and
involvement towards meaningful, effective and progressive
political participation. It aims to advance political awareness
and critical thinking in order to empower individuals to
be catalysts for social change. In response to its goal, the
organization continuously develops a broad range of activities that enables individuals
to both raise awareness and engage in community development.
Chartered in the year 1998, the Rotaract Club of
De La Salle University (RAC DLSU) is recognized
as part of the alliance of special interest and
socio civic organizations (ASPIRE) of De la
Salle University-Manila. Rotaract Club of DLSU
is sponsored by the Rotary Club of Manila and
registered in the Rotary International District
3810. We, the officers and members of this club, are fully committed on the club’s
mission to hone members on becoming future leaders of the country. This club is
conducting different socio-civic projects believing that through these, we are able to
contribute to the society at the same time enhance the leadership skills of our officers
and members.
Sociedad de Historia is all about looking at a wider
perspective of the things through a profound interest
and understanding of the human past. We gather
students who are passionate about history; from
East to West, ancient to modern, and everything in
between! At the same time, we seek to nurture the
students’ critical abilities and humanistic creative
potentials so that they may find self-fulfillment and
serve as catalysts of social transformation. And as
always, we will strive to be at the school’s forefront in
the preservation and cultivation of human knowledge
through the initiation of history-related activities.

-- 219 of 339 --

220
SME
SMS
SV
The Society of Manufacturing Engineers DLSU
Student Chapter 200 (SME DLSU) is the professional
student organization that caters to the Manufacturing
Engineering and Management (MEM) students of De La
Salle University-Manila. Under the banner of its mother
organization, SME USA, SME DLSU is a world-class
community united in molding well-rounded engineers who are the forerunners in the
advancement and development of the Philippine manufacturing industry. Amongst
its main goals, SME DLSU aims to provide a means of professional development,
academic excellence, image enhancement, and special activities development for its
members through the activities the organization provides. Through these activities, its
officers and members will encounter experiences that will holistically shape and mold
its members to be the next generation of Filipino innovators in the future.
Ang Samahan ng mga Mag-aaral sa Sikolohiya
ay isang propesyonal na organisasyon sa De La
Salle University. Patuloy na itinataguyod ng SMS
ang pag-aaral at pagpapaunlad ng Sikolohiya
bilang malawak at makabuluhang pag-unawa
at pagtangkilik sa iba’t ibang aspeto ng kurso.
Hangad din nitong mapagbuklod ang mga
mag-aaral pati na rin ang mga guro at ang buong
komunidad ng Sikolohiya tungo sa maayos na pagkakaisa. Ito ay ipinapatupad sa
pamamagitan ng pagsasagawa ng mga talakayan, lektyur at iba pang mga gawaing
makakatulong sa kanilang pag-unlad at pagkatao.
Societas Vitae, the professional organization of Biology
students, aims to provide holistic development through
conducting activities that will further nourish their knowledge
and hone their skills in line with various fields of Biology and
Medicine. The organization is part of the Biology Majors Alliance
of the Philippines and the Alliances of Pre-Medical Societies in
the Philippines. Societas Vitae envisions to enable its members
to be productive and progressive citizens for God and country
by utilizing their skills in their chosen fields.

-- 220 of 339 --

221
TEAMCOMM
UNISTO
Team Communication is the professional
school organization of Communication Arts
and Organizational Communication majors
in DLSU. For 17 years, it has provided a home
for Communication students where they
can freely hone their talents and develop
untapped skills in all forms of media. The
organization offers activities and services
which give students the opportunity to grow
into competent professionals, instilled with them are the virtues of a true Lasallian
leader. As communication majors, they are committed to being a voice and to getting
the message across effectively.
UNISTO is focused on the rights and development
of International Students studying at De La Salle
University -Manila. Its goals are to further awareness
of the International Student population to the
students, faculty and personnel involved with DLSU
while forming camaraderie among International
and Filipino students. Through celebration of all
represented cultures and exploration into the foreign
culture that its members reside in, UNISTO hopes to
further the spirit of respect and multiculturalism that
transcends beliefs and
nationality.

-- 221 of 339 --

222
UNITED
WG
The Union of Students Inspired towards Education, or
UNITED, is the professional organization for the College
of Education guided by the Lasallian principle, working
with the heart to live a life of service to teach minds,
touch hearts and transform lives. This organization is
under De La Salle University-Manila, located at 2401 Taft
Avenue, Manila. UNITED, is a professional organization
of the College of Education, striving for excellence
and catering to the needs of education students. This
organization aims to ignite passion for education and to
mold its members to become advocates of education
who will contribute to the Philippine Educational System. UNITED also aims to be the
voice about the importance of Education; and that this will be heard to the rest of
the DLSU community. In the light of this vision, UNITED aspires to holistically develop
its members into becoming future teacher leaders striving for excellence. Thus, this
organization shall provide venues for character development activities, enhancing
professional and personal skills to maximize the student’s potential. UNITED also
believes that education is the key to success. This is why UNITED members use
their talents and skills in teaching to help the society grow. Socio-civic activities that
promote social awareness and the spirit of volunteerism will also be hosted in order to
better serve the needs of others and ourselves as leaders.
Since 1979, Writers’ Guild has been Redefining
Writing by not only providing venues for Lasallians
for inspiration and discovery, but also ways for its
members to broaden their writing experience. It
strives to develop the perception of the Lasallians
to the value of writing, through course-related
and other literary works. It exposes its members
to different areas of learning and forms writing
as an expression by means of meaningful and
worthwhile seminars and other activities.

-- 222 of 339 --

223
YES
Alyansang Tapat sa Lasalista (TAPAT)
Special Groups
The Young Entrepreneurs’ Society of De La Salle University is
a local chapter of the Young Entrepreneurs’ Society national
organization. YES serves as a professional organization for
Entrepreneurship students of DLSU. It aims to promote the
entrepreneurial spirit among business students and every
other individual as the economic heroes of today’s trend. The
organization aims to empower students and young people by
encouraging and promoting entrepreneurship and sharpening
their entrepreneurial skills and competencies by providing
a comprehensive network of student and business organizations, government
institutions, and non-government organizations which can contribute to the cause of
the organization. YES also aims to nurture and support young Lasallian entrepreneurs
through sponsored seminars, workshops, and other related activities.
The Young Entrepreneurs’ Society of De La Salle University (YES-DLSU) serves as a
professional organization that caters to Entrepreneurship students with the objective
of spearheading activities that shall enhance the skills, abilities, knowledge, and
character of entrepreneurship and business students, aspiring entrepreneurs, and
those individuals interested towards trends and development in business and industry
contributing to the entrepreneurial progress of the community. These are all possible
by providing a comprehensive network of student and business organizations,
government institutions, and non government organizations through sponsored
seminars and workshops among others.
Alyansang Tapat sa Lasallista (TAPAT) is the first and
leading political organization in De La Salle University,
founded on August 16, 1985. Tapat has produced 23
of the 36 University Student Presidents with a total
of 7 Executive Board sweeps. Aside from actively
participating in USG elections, Tapat focuses on
creating pro-student and pro-people leaders who
can foster social responsibility. Above all else, Tapat
is an alliance of individuals who believe in unity and
collective effort and can actualize platforms and
programs grounded on good governance in its vision
of achieving a just and free society.

-- 223 of 339 --

224
DLSU Multipurpose Student Cooperative (SCOOP)
Lasallian Ambassadors (LAmb)
La Salle Debate Society (LSDS)
As the first student-owned and operated cooperative
in the Philippines, the DLSU Multipurpose Student
Cooperative (SCoOp) aims to train its members as future
Lasallian business leaders, owners, and entrepreneurs. An
organization created by students for the students, SCoOp
continues to provide services that are geared towards the
needs of the student body. True to its mission of providing
quality and cost-efficient services to the students, SCoOp
offers a wide variety of services such as daily printing, ring
binding, membership cards, tarpaulin printing, A3 and A4
posters, and lamination.
The Lasallian Ambassadors is a volunteer organization
composed of confident, competent, and talented
students who dedicate their service to the university
through several support activities that cater to the needs
of the freshmen. They are also trained to become model
students who exemplify the virtues, values, and character
of a true Lasallian. Since its foundation in 1999, the
organization has been forming and generating new breeds
of skilled and gifted Lasallians whose duty is to strengthen
the relations with their clientelle (special guests and
visitors of the university, feeder schools, and students) and
to offer mentoring support for the freshmen.
Founded in 1922 as the La Salle Forensics Team, the
La Salle Debate Society is one of the oldest and most
reputable debating institutions in the world. It has hosted
and participated in numerous national and international
tournaments, continuously achieving and acquiring awards
for the university and the Society. It aims to foster growth
among its members, raising them with the philosophy of
what it means to win with honor and to make the game
beautiful. It envisions a world where everyone can engage
in intellectual discourse and gives them a platform to
speak up.

-- 224 of 339 --

225
Iisang Tugon sa Tawag ng Panahon (SANTUGON)
Lasallian Scholars Society (LSS)
Santugon sa Tawag ng Panahon is a premier socio-
political party whose core principles rely on the belief in
maturity and capacity of the youth in general and the De
La Salle University students in particular. We envision a
community of politically mature Lasallians who are always
consultative, proactive, and responsive to the call of the
times. Santugon sa Tawag ng Panahon aims to strengthen
the students’ awareness and involvement in socio-political
issues. The organization aims to provide the entire student
body with holistic activities that promote empowerment
and social awareness. We field and train student-leaders for the University Student
Government and provide the whole student body with genuine service with the
vision of having Empowered Lasallians, and a Progressive Citizenry. This students’
Government shall consult and not merely dictate, involve, and not merely govern. It is
the response to the clamor and need for relevant and effective student government.
The Lasallian Scholars Society (LSS) is the sole accredited
scholars’ organization in De La Salle University-Manila.
LSS functions under the Office of Student Leadership,
Involvement, Formation, and Empowerment (SLIFE) and
considers every scholar as an automatic member of
the organization. Serving as DLSU’s premiere scholars’
organization, LSS aims to establish proper representation
and identity of Lasallian scholars while providing them an
air of familial communion and a level ground for concerns.

-- 225 of 339 --

226
DE LA SALLE UNIVERSITY CHORALE
DE LA SALLE INNERSOUL
LASALLIAN YOUTH ORCHESTRA
The De La Salle University Chorale was officially established in 1975,
initially composed of music-loving Lasallians. For the past years, the
group continues to perform and organize relevant activities that
brings together choral groups and audiences here and abroad. The
premiere chorale group of the university continues to win accolades
from prestigious local and international competitions and always
delights audiences with their crisp, accurate sound and expressive
rendition of songs. It continues to search for and participate as
Ambassadors of Goodwill with the willfulness and purposefulness
of their commitment in achieving their goal: excellence in choral
music.
De La Salle Innersoul began as a union of four Kundirana
alumni in college, whose passion for singing inspired the
founding of a musical group that would soon be the family of
many artists in De La Salle University. Launching as a student-
artist organization under the Culture and Arts Office in 1997,
Innersoul officially became the university’s first pop vocal
group. The group has since then diversified its artistry by
honing soloists as well as group performers in various genres
of contemporary music, ranging from Pop, Jazz, Dance & Rap,
R&B, Liturgical and Gospel Music, and Standard Classics.
The Lasallian Youth Orchestra is the official orchestra
of De La Salle University that exudes distinctive quality
of string, wind and rhythmic instruments, taking form
in diverse genres from classical, pop, contemporary
to ethnic genres. It dedicates itself to being a globally
competitive youth orchestra known for its distinct
ethno-symphonic music that showcases the distinct
Filipino culture. It is geared towards forming well
grounded, service driven creative musicians and artist
managers who will be able to effectively communicate the importance of culture
and arts in everyday life. The group highlights the capabilities and talents of Lasallian
student artists through local and international endeavors and establishes relationships
with different schools and companies for future collaborations.
Culture and Arts Groups

-- 226 of 339 --

227
LA SALLE DANCE COMPANY-CONTEMPORARY
LA SALLE DANCE COMPANY-FOLK
LA SALLE DANCE COMPANY-STREET
The La Salle Dance Company-Contemporary started in
1981 as the La Salle Dance Troupe. It boasts itself of being
the organizers of the longest-running inter-collegiate
dance competition in the region, entitled “Dancelebration”,
which started three decades ago. They are fully committed
to the promotion of Filipino culture, and the advocacy of
contemporary dance as a vessel for cultural realization and
pride. They continuously strive to elevate the standards of
contemporary dance through experimental pieces using
various art forms. In the recent years, they have actively
joined festivals and competitions in the ASEAN region and
has consistently won accolades for their alma mater.
La Salle Dance Company-Folk seeks to become a leading
university folk dance company in connecting the youth of De
La Salle University to the Filipino heritage by incorporating
a modern visual style to the traditional dances of the
Philippines. It envisions to establish and to nurture the Filipino
identity among its audiences, to create a spark of nationalism
and to boost the cultural pride of the Philippines abroad.
The group is also committed to advocate the contemporary
issues affecting the Filipino indigenous communities and
showcases the Filipino traditional values through its dances
and moves its audience towards a sense of love for its own
culture.
Known for its unique and energetic performances,
the LSDC-Street is an award-winning crew that
aims to establish Filipino identity in hip hop
culture through constantly exploring new dance
styles and breathtaking acrobatic stunts. They
have established their position in the streetdance
community as they have ruled over major dance
competitions in the country. They have also
been consistent placers in the World Hiphop
Championships in the US for two consecutive
years, and the champion in Body Rock Asia in 2020.

-- 227 of 339 --

228
DLSU HARLEQUIN THEATRE GUILD
DLSU GREEN MEDIA GROUP
The DLSU Harlequin Theatre Guild holds the title
of being the oldest cultural group established in
the university, with its more than sixty years of
existence. The Guild advocates social issues and
the promotion of Filipino culture in the campus and
in other schools. It has also established its name in
the culture and arts scene as it staged several plays
by invitation, in legitimate theatres here and abroad,
where their talents in production and social advocacy
were recognized. In 2018, the Guild’s contribution
was immortalized in the recent edition of the CCP
Encyclopedia of Philippine Art.
The DLSU Green Media Group was formerly known as
the Communication Arts Society, which existed as
early as 1978. It has established its membership until
the late ‘80s and revived in the mid ‘90s. It has also
expanded its membership to other colleges, and not
only for Communication Arts majors. Today, the Green
Media Group is the recognized production and media
services arm of the university, composed of dedicated
student members who take care of stage management,
technical direction, multi-media presentations,
graphic designs, scriptwriting, hosting and production
design, and coverage services of most university and
organizational events.

-- 228 of 339 --

229
Ang Pahayagang Plaridel
Archers Network
Green and White
Mula noong 1984 hanggang ngayon, nananatili ang
Ang Pahayagang Plaridel (APP) bilang publikasyong
pangkampus na kritikal at kaisa sa pagpiglas para sa
katotohanan, para sa bayan. Sa masikhay na pagsulong
ng pitong seksyon nito—Balita, Isports, Bayan,
Buhay at Kultura, Retrato, Sining, at Impormasyong
Panteknolohiya—layunin ng APP na maghatid ng balita,
magpataas ng kamalayan, at magmulat, hindi lamang para
sa mga Lasalyano kundi para sa masang Pilipino.
Pinanghahawakan ng APP ang mga katagang naging sandigan nito mula sa taong
pagkakatatag at paglilingkod sa Pamantasan at sa bayan: Mahirap magbingi-bingihan
sa katotohanan. Mahirap magsulat ngunit kinakailangan.
Archers Network (ARCH) is the premier online
television network organization of De La Salle
University-Manila, made for Lasallians, by
Lasallians. We serve as a broadcast medium to
the Lasallian community through social media
platforms such as Facebook and Instagram. We
focus on producing relevant, informative, and
entertaining content for the Lasallian community.
Such contents are classified through different
channels such as Advertisements, Entertainment,
Events, News and Current Affairs, and Sports and
Culture.
Founded in 1924 as the first student organization of De
La Salle University, Green & White came to be the official
yearbook publication of DLSU in 1938. Over 100 years
since its inception, Green & White continues the legacy of
capturing images of Lasallian excellence and providing the
Lasallian community a testimonial of its brilliant history.
Student Media Groups

-- 229 of 339 --

230
Green Giant FM
Malate Literary Folio
The LaSallian
Green Giant FM (GGFM), is the
university’s official radio station located
at Bro. Bloemen Hall within De La Salle
University. Initially a joint venture
between TEAMCOMM and ECES, GGFM
has since evolved to become part of
the Student Media Office. GGFM is a
student-run organization that aims to
serve the Lasallian community and listeners worldwide by providing entertaining
original content as well as broadcasting accurate and reliable news. GGFM also
provides services in events hosting, media coverage, voiceovers, and on-air/online
promotions.
GGFM streams today’s top hits through our official website, as well as releases bi-
weekly podcasts on our Facebook Page and Youtube Channels.
Malate Literary Folio (MLF) is the official
literary and visual arts publication of De La
Salle University. As a publication, Malate
commits itself to an excellence in creative
writing and visual artistry, guided by a
Filipino consciousness. The publication
creates folios featuring the works of the
staffers from its six sections: Prose, Poetry,
Photo, Art, Screenplay, and Marketing
& Events. Through its works of art and literature, Malate aims to create a space for
honing a critical eye on social issues while sharing new perspectives and solutions
about the nation and its people.
The LaSallian (TLS), the bastion of issue-
oriented critical thinking, is De La Salle
University’s official student publication
founded in October 24, 1960 with Polo
Santiago Pantaleon serving as its first
Editor in Chief. As a completely student-
run and managed publication, TLS is
mainly accountable to the students of the
University and serves as a training ground
for professional, competent, and responsible journalists. Through its news, stories,
photographs, illustrations, and perspectives, TLS represents and fights for the rights
and welfare of the students. Represented by a 10-pointed star, TLS and its staffers
uphold and live by the 10 pillars of journalism.

-- 230 of 339 --

231
The Catholic Religious Organizations of Students (CROSs) is a coordinating body
of Catholic religious organizations in De La Salle University. The body is under the
auspices of the Lasallian Pastoral Office. Its function is to help build Christian
communities in the university through various gifts and charisms. It also promotes
collaboration, coordination and community building among religious organizations
and other student groups in the university.
Vision-Mission
One Lasallian community carrying the core values of Faith, Zeal for Service, and
Communion, empowering the students to be catalysts of social transformation for
the glory of God.
Religious Organizations
CFC–Youth for Christ (YFC)
Christ’s Youth in Action (CYA)
De La Salle Days with the Lord (DWTL)
Couples for Christ–Youth for Christ is the young adult
ministry of the Couples for Christ. It is a Catholic evangelistic
ministry to young people, with the vision to renew society
in Christ through the youth. YFC, through fun friendship,
freedom, and faith, aims to be and bring Christ wherever
they are.
Christ’s Youth in Action is a Catholic movement of young
Filipinos dedicated to evangelizing the youth and training
leaders for the service of the church.
De La Salle Days with the Lord is a youth group that
encourages people to start and nurture a personal
relationship with Christ. A friendship that allows us to
realize and discover what we can contribute to making
the world we live in a better place and urges us to
reach out and act. We have the DWTL Retreat, a three
days, two nights spiritual workshop where one can be
introduced to these concepts and afterwards be part of
a community that supports each other’s spiritual growth
through everyday things.

-- 231 of 339 --

232
Feast Youth-DLSU
Missionary Families of Christ–Youth (MFC Youth)
Regnum Christi Love Inspired by Faith and
Encounter–Taft (RC LIFE–Taft)
Feast Youth-DLSU is part of Feast Youth, under Feast
Mega Manila Region. This organization will hold
various events and activities. Feast Youth-DLSU will
be working alongside Youth Home Taft, a monthly
gathering of senior high and college students among
the schools within Taft.
Missionary Families of Christ-Youth exists to provide
an environment for the youth to honor God through
a life of holiness, to empower them to act in humble
service, to encourage them to relate in joy with their
family, community and the Church, and to testify
God’s love.
Regnum Christi Love Inspired by Faith and
Encounter–Taft is the college youth group
of the international Catholic movement
Regnum Christi. RC LIFE–Taft is the
movement’s first university level program,
making it the first of its kind around the
globe. As an organization, RC LIFE aims
to give the church in the Philippines
passionate young professionals for Christ
and His mission, inspired by faith and encounter with Christ and others. In DLSU, RC
LIFE offers regular activities such as Encounters with Christ, Holy Hours, Faith and
Formation Talks, Spiritual Direction and Mission activities.

-- 232 of 339 --

233
Volunteer Groups
Student Care Initiative
DLSU – Student Catholic Action (SCA)
Student Lasallian Animators
The Student Care Initiative (SCI) is the official
volunteer student organization under the Office
of Student Affairs (OSA). The SCI aims to establish
a Lasallian culture of sustainable in-reach welfare
and altruistic volunteerism through the pursuit of
holistic initiatives and comprehensively integrated
service-oriented projects. Through Altruistic
Volunteerism, Fostering for Student Welfare, and
Concern for the Common Good, the SCI molds a
system and avenue for Lasallian student leaders
to aid the Lasallian community with meaningful
projects, relevant activities, and key partnerships.
De La Salle University–Student Catholic Action
is an organization focused on action grounded
on Catholic virtues. Utilizing the See-Judge-Act
methodology, its members are formed according
to the realities which the society faces whilst living
out a life of spirituality and goodness.
The Student Lasallian Animators (SLA) is
a community of student-volunteers and
under the Lasallian Pastoral Office (LSPO)
that help in animating the faith-life of
Lasallians through the different activities
and programs of Lasallian Pastoral Office
(LSPO) and of the organization. The
special formation and training SLAs receive while serving their fellow students and
the academic community develops them to be effective youth ministers and future
leaders.

-- 233 of 339 --

234
Graduate Student Council
DLSU Business Doctoral Society (BDS)
DLSU International Law Society (ILS)
The Graduate Student Council serves
as the representative body of graduate
students. They act as activity initiators
and represent graduate students in
various committees in the University. The
Graduate Student Council advocates for
the welfare and holistic development of
graduate students.
The Business Doctoral Society (BDS) of DLSU is a student
society composed of graduate students of Doctor of
Business Administration (DBA) and PhD in Business.
The society’s core purpose is to help Business Doctoral
Students of DLSU to finish and graduate from the program
within the allowable timeframe set by the University.
The society aims to: enhance the members’ personal and
professional competencies in business management and
research; strengthen the camaraderie and expand network among its members,
including DBA and Ph.D in Business alumni; provide sustainable development and
ethical business practice projects for the benefit of the members, the community,
and the world we live in; and contribute in promoting and strengthening of the DBA
and Ph.D in Business and its network locally and globally.
The International Law Society is an organization that
is committed to taking the legal profession to another
level through activities and programs that will develop
and highlight the competencies of law students
not only within the college but more especially, in
the international sphere. The organization aims to
motivate the students to showcase their capabilities
in a globally competitive manner, competing against
students from local and foreign universities in debate
exhibitions and moots, and serving as delegates in
various academic fora and seminars.
Graduate Student Organizations

-- 234 of 339 --

235
De La Salle Law Paralegal Volunteers Organization
(DLSU LAW PVO)
De La Salle University Law Moot and Debate Society
(LAMDES)
DLSU Optical Society (DOS)
It is a service and professional
organization that seeks to mold La Salle
law students with the guidance and
vision of St. John Baptist de La Salle to
become active builders and leaders of
change. The organization seeks to enrich
and supplement the theoretical legal
education with real application through
trainings, lectureand involvement in
communities. The vision of PVO is to
assist in building an ideal Lasallian lawyer—one who is in the lead in the improvement
of the legal profession. One who seeks to abide by the wisdom of the law and to
provide justice and service to those who need it most. It has key advocacies such as
Human Rights, Children, Women, Indigenous People, Environment, LGBT, and Labor.
LAMDES has a three-point vision:
1. A society that seeks to promote intelligent
discourse in various fields of law through mooting
and legal debating.
2. A society that aims to perfect or master the art
of lawyering through simulated court proceedings.
3. A society that advances the goal of improving
the oral and writing skills of law students through
oral and written advocacies.
It is a recognized graduate student organization
of De La Salle University. Committing to
DOS means coherent growth of academic
advancement, network expansion, and
professional development. The organization
aims to: promote awareness of optical science
and optical engineering among the student and
local communities; facilitate communication
and interaction between students, faculty,
administration and industry professionals;
interact with The Optical Society members and its
student organizations with a focus on information sharing and networking; and, raise
awareness of post-graduation opportunities for students.

-- 235 of 339 --

236
Environmental Justice Movement (EJM)
The Lasallian Graduate Economics Society (LGES)
Lasallian Student Ambassadors for Graduate Education (Lasallian SAGE)
It is a research and policy-based organization which upholds
environmental justice; premised on the right of people to
a healthy and balanced ecology and has the end goal of a
sustainable environment.
The society exists to contribute in sustainably
uplifting the human condition through scholarship
and performance of students in the Graduate School
of Economics.
The Society also aims to be a model organization serving as a framework for
other graduate economics organizations to encourage the formation of a national
organization of graduate economic organizations
The members of The Society commit themselves to embody the following in line with
the distinct Lasallian framework
o Excellence in the Conduct of Research
o World Class Academic Performance
o Committed to Scholarship and Communion in Mission
The Lasallian SAGE is a graduate student support group of
the Office of Student Leadership Involvement, Formation
and Empowerment. The Lasallian SAGE was created to help
build a rich and supportive community for current graduate
students.
Lasallian SAGE is committed, confident, and service-
oriented DLSU graduate students who come from a variety
of disciplines and backgrounds. They have been selected
to serve and support new and current students by assisting
at graduate student events, local and international functions for graduate studies, and
interacting with them in University affairs and in social media. Ambassadors also serve
as liaisons between the Office of Student LIFE and the graduate students. Guided by
the values of faith, zeal for service, and communion, they are expected to share their
time, talent and resources to help in the formation of their fellow Graduate Students
and create a community of active, involved, and compassionate Lasallians.

-- 236 of 339 --

237
APPENDIX G
STUDENTS’ CHARTER
Section 1: Title. This document shall be known as the Students’ Charter
of De La Salle University, with campuses in 2401 Taft Avenue, Manila
and in LTI Spine Road, Laguna Blvd, Biñan, Laguna, and shall be referred
hereinafter as the Students’ Charter.
Chapter I. General Principles
1.1.1 	Section 2: Declaration of Policy. It is hereby declared
that:
1.1.1.1 	The Vision-Mission of University is: “De
La Salle University is a leading learner-
centered research university bridging faith
and scholarship, in the service of society
especially the poor and marginalized.”
1.1.1.2 	The members of the academic community
recognize the students’ right to participate
actively and effectively in the democratic
processes of effectuating progressive and
developmental changes with the University.
1.1.2 	Guiding Principles. The Students’ Charter hereby
declares the following as its basic guiding principles:
1.1.2.1 	Lasallian education, being the primary
means by which knowledge, skills, and
values are imparted to the students, shall
be given priority and full attention by all
members of the academic community.
1.1.2.2 	Student organizations shall develop and
enhance democratic processes on campus
in line with the Lasallian Vision-Mission
Statement. Membership and active
participation in student organizations,
alliances, and federations which promote
and protect student rights and welfare and/
or contribute to national development shall
be guaranteed by the University Student
Government and the school authorities.

-- 237 of 339 --

238
1.1.2.3 	Student organizations shall not be subjected
to rules and regulations that unduly hamper
their activities and are prejudicial to their
objectives and interests, provided that such
objectives are aligned with the University’s
mission.
1.1.2.4 	The University Student Government (USG),
being the supreme and autonomous
representative body of the students, shall
have the right to participate in the formation
of school policies directly affecting the
students.
1.1.2.5 	Student media shall serve as the principal
medium for free and responsible expression,
dissemination of information, and
interaction among the different sectors of
the academic community.
1.1.2.6 	With their democratic rights guaranteed,
students shall serve as a potent and cogent
force in the country’s nationalist social
transformation.
Section 4: Definition of Terms.
1.1.2.7 	Lasallian Community - A community
composed of the students, faculty,
non-teaching staff, and the University
Administration.
1.1.2.8 	Alternative Classes - Classes given by the
professor which are outside of classroom
such as plays, field trips, etc
1.1.2.9 	Board of Trustees - The overall governing
body of De La Salle University, which
oversees the long-term plans for
improvements in the university’s academic
programs, research activities, and facilities.
1.1.2.10 	Campus - The grounds and buildings
covering the De La Salle University - Manila
and Laguna Campus.

-- 238 of 339 --

239
1.1.2.11 	College/School Government – A
representative body composed of students
elected by their constituents to fulfill
specific duties and responsibilities in the
student government.
1.1.2.12 	Council of University Representatives -
Internal and external committees wherein
University Student Government officers are
given the task of representing the student
body
1.1.2.13 	Courses, Academic and Non-Academic -
Classes about a particular subject taught
during the student’s entire academic stay in
the university.
1.1.2.14 	Dean of Student Affairs - The individual
responsible for the direct coordination and
integration of a comprehensive program
for the Student Affairs adopted by the
University and administered in its several
colleges
1.1.2.15 	Degree Program or Program - A course of
study leading to an academic degree.
1.1.2.16 	Fourth-Hour Activity - Class activities such
as, but not limited to, activities organized by
the University Student Government, Council
of Student Organizations, special groups
and other University offices, that are done
outside of class hours.
1.1.2.17 	Free Electives – Subjects outside an
undergraduate student’s base degree
program which students may avail of,
provided that the University’s policy on free
electives is followed.
1.1.2.18 	Make-up Classes - Compensates for a
regular class that did not take place due to
reasons such as bad weather, unavailability
of professors, etc.

-- 239 of 339 --

240
1.1.2.19 	Minor Degree Program - a 12-unit (or more)
program outside an undergraduate student’s
base degree program which may be availed,
provided that the University’s policy on
Minor Degree Programs is followed.
1.1.2.20 	Multi-sectoral Committee - A committee
composed of representatives from different
sectors of the university that discusses
different specific university concerns.
1.1.2.21 	Pertinent Documents - Documents that are
relevant or related to a specific matter at
hand which are given upon the request of a
student.
1.1.2.22 	Special Classes - Classes which are granted
upon by the Department Chair and College
Associate Dean upon the special request of
students.
1.1.2.23 	Student Discipline Formation Board - The
body which handles all student disciplinary
cases and is composed of a faculty
member, a student, an administrator, and a
chairperson who must be a member of the
Integrated Bar of the Philippines.
1.1.2.24 	Separation – means students who have
graduated from the university or completed
their degree.
Chapter II. Admission and Separation
1.1.3 	Section 5: Admission. Subject to fair, reasonable, and
equitable admission requirements, no student shall
be denied admission on account of their physical
handicap, socio-economic status, political or religious
beliefs or membership in student organizations nor
shall pregnant, married students, and reformed drug
users be discriminated against. A student shall have
the right to freely choose their field of study subject
to existing academic policy and curricula and to
continue their course up to graduation except in cases
of academic deficiency or violation of disciplinary
regulations which do not infringe upon the exercise of
student rights.

-- 240 of 339 --

241
1.1.4 	Shifting. Students have the right to shift based on
objective criteria as evaluation of acceptance into the
degree program subject to the processes of academic
departments. Furthermore, students have the right
to know the rationale of their final assessment upon
inquiry.
1.1.5 	Separation. Students have the right to be provided with
a standard set of pertinent documents (Transcript of
Records, Certificate of Good Moral Conduct, Diploma,
and Certificate of Graduation when applicable) upon
separation from the university as long as the student is
cleared from any obligation with the institution.
Chapter III. Responsibilities of Students
1.1.6 	Section 6: All students shall have the following
responsibilities:
1.1.6.1 	To develop their potentials to the utmost in
order that they may be of service to their
families and society;
1.1.6.2 	To develop their potentials to the utmost in
order that they may be of service to their
families and society;
1.1.6.3 	To exert utmost efforts towards the
realization of harmonious relationships with
the rest of the academic community;
1.1.6.4 	To participate actively in school activities
including athletics and civic affairs for the
development of the community and the
nation;
1.1.6.5 	To uphold, preserve, and maintain the good
name of their alma mater; and
1.1.6.6 	To exercise their rights responsibly.
Chapter IV. Academic Rights
1.1.7 	Section 7: Unpaid Tuition and Balances. No student
shall be prohibited from taking a periodic or final
examination because of unpaid balances of tuition
and fees and under the established terms prescribed
by the University and approved by the appropriate

-- 241 of 339 --

242
educational agency. Students with delinquent accounts
permitted to take an examination shall nevertheless
be subject to the right of the University to withhold the
release or issuance of such students’ school records or
documents or to deny such students from admission
for the next trimester or year until all unpaid accounts
are settled fully.
1.1.8 	Section 8: Dropping of Courses. A student has the right
to drop courses where “all financial transactions should
be made through the Finance and Accounting Office
at the Student Services window”, as stipulated in the
Student Handbook.
1.1.9 	Section 9: Honors and Privileges. A student who excels
academically shall be given recognition through
trimestral honors and graduation honors. Students who
enter the Dean’s First Honors List are entitled to receive
the Jose Rizal Certificate. If they have consistently
performed for six consecutive trimesters, they will be
recognized on the Annual Academic Recognition Day. In
addition, they are given the privilege of unlimited cuts
or absences in their academic courses provided that
they will not fail to meet the academic requirements
expected of them from any classes. Other special
awards may be given to graduating students who are
nominated by any student, faculty, and administration
to the University Honors and Awards Council.
1.1.10 	Section 10: Academic Evaluation. Students have the
right to know at the start of the trimester how they will
be evaluated through their enrolled course’s syllabus
which are presented to and verified by the Chairperson
of the Department Students may clarify and appeal to
the Department on the standards and process of how
they are evaluated.
1.1.11 	Section 11: Class Standing. Students have the right to
be informed by their professors of their class standing
not later than two weeks following their midterm
examinations. They also have the right to see their
graded quizzes and other works, which will have
bearing on their grades, before the final examinations.
1.1.12 	Section 12: Consultation. Students have the right to
be given proper consultation by their professors. This

-- 242 of 339 --

243
includes but is not limited to consultation hours with
their respective professors and academic advisers
upon mutual agreement.
1.1.13 	Section 15: Computation of Grades. Students have
the right to see their duly corrected final examination
papers and the computation of their final grades during
Grade Consultation day or on a day agreed upon by the
professor and the students. The departments must
ensure that the professors will be present to provide
a venue for the students to voice out their concerns.
Students are then entitled to an ample duration of time
to consult with the professor.
1.1.14 	Section 13: Curriculum and Faculty. Students shall
have the right to give their opinion and evaluate their
curriculum and the list of faculty members, both during
hiring and current, to their respective departments.
1.1.15 	Section 14: Attendance. All students are expected to
attend class promptly and regularly. A student may
incur absences, provided that they do not exceed the
number of allowable absences and the absences are
reasonable. A student shall not be considered absent
in class when the teacher arrives after one-third of the
class time.
1.1.16 	Section 15: Make Up and Alternative Classes. In the
case of alternative or make-up classes, students and
professors should reach a consensus as stipulated in
the Department Operations Manual.
1.1.17 	Section 16: Credit and Grading. Students who wish to
petition for a change of a trimestral grade shall ask their
instructors concerned to fill out the necessary forms
and to comply with the procedures for the change of
grade. Students are informed of the change of grade
through their official DLSU email. Same information
is sent to the University Registrar and the Faculty
concerned. Students are entitled to clarify the reason
for the change of grade.
1.1.18 	Section 17: In Cases of Force Majeure. In the event a
catastrophe hinders face to face classes, students
are guaranteed the right to recommend and negotiate
necessary adjustments to academic and classroom

-- 243 of 339 --

244
policies to accommodate the immediate needs of
students.
1.1 	Fees and Financing
1.1.1 	Section 18: Tuition and Fees. Students have the right to
be properly represented in all meetings relevant to the
discussion of tuition and fees increase. They have the
right to be provided a summary report of the usage or
allocation of the previous academic year’s increase.
1.1.2 	Section 19: Scholarships. Deserving students have the
right to avail of scholarships offered by the University
through the Office of Admissions and Scholarships
(OAS).
1.1.3 	Section 20: Other Forms of Financing. Qualified
students have the right to avail of loans, take positions
for part-time work within the University (such
as assistantship under academic departments),
promissory notes, scholarships, financial grants, and
the like, for the purposes of financing their education.
1.1.4 	Section 21: Other Forms of Financing. Qualified
students have the right to avail of loans, take positions
for part-time work within the University (such
as assistantship under academic departments),
promissory notes, scholarships, financial grants, and
the like, for the purposes of financing their education.
1.1.5 	Section 22: Refund. Students have the right to a refund,
according to the memorandum of the Department
of Education, Culture and Sports (now known as the
Department of Education). When a student registers
in the University, it is understood that they are
enrolling for the entire term. A student who transfers
or otherwise withdraws in writing within two weeks
after the beginning of classes and who has already
paid the pertinent tuition and other school fees in full
for any length longer than one month may be charged
ten percent (10%) of the total amount due for the
term if they withdraw during the first week of classes,
or twenty percent (20%) if within the second week
of classes, regardless of whether or not they actually
attended classes. The student may be charged all the
fees in full if they withdraw anytime after the second
week of classes.

-- 244 of 339 --

245
Chapter VI. Right to Proper Information
1.1.6 	Section 23: Fees and Payment. Tuition, special fees,
and deadlines for payments of such must be posted
on the administrative bulletin boards, Help Desk
Announcements, and other communication channels
prior to and during the enrollment period.
1.1.7 	Section 24: Academic Evaluation. Students have the
right to access pertinent information regarding their
enrolled courses such as minor and major course
requirements, assessment rubrics, syllabus, class
standing, and other documents used by the faculty
and the administration in their respective operations
provided that it is not illicit in nature as confirmed
confidential by their Department Chair and/or College
Dean.
1.1.8 	Section 25: Academic Consultations. The University
strongly urges the community to cultivate a learner-
centered environment wherein student-teacher
dialogue regarding course delivery is exercised at
all times. This also includes the right of students to
discuss their class standing and computation of grades
in their enrolled courses.
1.1.9 	Section 26: Approval and Accumulated Absences.
Students have the right to information regarding
the approval of and/or accumulated absences. A
student who has acquired the number of absences
that may render them ineligible for a passing grade
shall be informed by the instructor through direct
communication (consultation, verbal warning or letter/
note). Students, however, must be responsible in
monitoring their attendance as well.
1.1.10 	Section 27: Final Examinations. At the beginning of
the course, students have the right to be informed of
their instructors’ policies for final examinations and
the criteria for exemptions. Students have the right to
be informed of the final examination schedules two
weeks before the start of the examinations through
class discussions, administrative bulletin boards, and
AnimoSpace.
1.1.11 	Section 28: Use of Data Gathered in USG Surveys. Use

-- 245 of 339 --

246
of Data Gathered in USG Surveys. Students have the
right to know the purpose and the specific use of their
gathered data through University Student Government
surveys, such as, but not limited to, the Student
Census, Constituency Checks, and Student Services .
This shall be provided in the USG’s Privacy Policy.
Chapter VII. Right to Representation and Suffrage.
1.1.12 	Section 29: University Student Government.
The University shall ensure the democratic and
autonomous existence of the University Student
Government (USG). This body shall have its own set
of officers chosen by the students during annual
general and frosh elections. The USG shall have the
right to determine its policies and programs on student
activities subject to its duly ratified constitution and
policies.
1.1.13 	Section 30: Formation of the Commission on Elections
(COMELEC). The Commission on Elections shall
conduct and oversee the election of officers of the
University Student Government. The College Presidents
will have the responsibility appointing COMELEC
Commissioners from their respective colleges for the
approval of the Legislative Assembly. The COMELEC
shall be under the USG, which shall provide the
COMELEC sufficient funds to ensure the success of its
goals and objectives. Once constituted, the COMELEC
shall ensure the conduct of clean, honest, and peaceful
elections.
1.1.14 	Section 31: Right to Representation. The University
shall recognize the right of students to be represented,
through the USG, in all policymaking bodies and multi-
sectoral committees handling issues that affect them.
Examples are the following:
1.1.14.1 	Ad-Hoc Grievance Board
1.1.14.2 	Aspiring Organizations Accreditation
Committee
1.1.14.3 	Canteen Inspection Committee
1.1.14.4 	Committee on National Issues and Concerns

-- 246 of 339 --

247
1.1.14.5 	College Council
1.1.14.6 	Council on Inclusion, Diversity, and Well-
Being
1.1.14.7 	Disaster Risk Reduction and Management
Committee
1.1.14.8 	Drug Testing Selection Board
1.1.14.9 	Enrollment Council
1.1.14.10 	Housing Committee
1.1.14.11 	Multi-Sectoral Consultative Committee on
Tuition and Fees
1.1.14.12 	Student Discipline Formation Board
1.1.14.13 	Student Fees Revision Committee
1.1.14.14 	Student Handbook Revision Committee
1.1.14.15 	Task Force Safe School Committee
1.1.14.16 	University Honors and Awards Council
1.1.14.17 	University Library Council
1.1.14.18 	University Panel for Case Conference
1.1.14.19 	University Vision Mission Week Executive
Committee
1.1.15 	Section 32: Board of Trustees. The USG, on behalf of
the students, can meet with the Chairperson of the
Board of Trustees every trimester to discuss pertinent
University issues. In addition, the USG shall have
access to the minutes of the meetings of the Board of
Trustees.
1.1.16 	Section 33: Administrative Councils. The USG, on behalf
of the students, have the right to request consultation
meetings with the University’s Administrative Councils
to discuss pertinent University issues or when the need
arises.
1.1.17 	Section 34: Hiring of Incoming Faculty Members.
Students have the right to quality Lasallian education.
They, through their professional organizations under

-- 247 of 339 --

248
the Council of Student Organizations and their
respective College Student Government officers,
shall have the right to coordinate with their respective
departments for purposes of participating in the
screening of incoming teachers/professors.
1.1.18 	Section 35: Evaluation of Faculty Members. Students
have the right to evaluate their teachers during the
term.
Chapter VIII. Right to Organize
1.1.19 	Section 36: Right to Organization. Unity and collective
effort being fundamental to the realization of common
goals and the promotion and protection of common
interests, the University recognizes the right of
students to organize among themselves. The right of
the students to form, assist, or join any university or
external organizations, alliance, or federation for their
physical, intellectual, moral, cultural, civic, spiritual, and/
or political interest, so long as these are not contrary to
the University’s mission and Lasallian core values, shall
not be abridged.
1.1.20 	Section 37: Council of Student Organizations. The
university shall recognize the Council of Student
Organizations as an independent and autonomous
student sector. This body reserves the right to re-
accredit organizations every academic year. CSO shall
have the right to organize and provide student activities
based on its nature, constitution, and need of the
Council. CSO shall represent the different professional,
special interest, and socio-civic organizations in the
university.
1.1.21 	Section 37: Accreditation and Granting of Privileges to
Student Organizations. No unreasonable requirements
shall be imposed on student organizations seeking
recognition. Any group of fifteen (15) students may
apply for accreditation of their organization beginning
the second trimester. Please see Section 15.3 Student
Activities under Specific Provisions for Undergraduate
Students. A duplicate of these documents must be
submitted to the Council of Student Organizations.
The Council of Student Organizations, USG and the
Office of Student LIFE under the Dean of Student

-- 248 of 339 --

249
Affairs shall take charge of the accreditation of student
organizations. Excessive charges for the use of school
facilities shall be prohibited. Whenever possible,
the University Administration shall allow student
organizations to use school facilities free of charge.
1.1.22 	Section 38: Safe Spaces within Student Organizations.
The University recognizes each student’s right to
democratically participate in student organizations,
alliances, and federations provided that these do not
contradict the University’s vision, mission, and Lasallian
values, as well as the state’s governing laws. As such,
all students are encouraged to exercise due diligence
and utmost responsibility when democratically
participating in organizations, alliances, and federations
and in partaking in student activities, provided that no
actions result in the contradiction of the University’s
vision and mission, as well as the state’s governing
laws.
Chapter IX. Right to Adequate and Safe Campus Facilities and
Services
1.1.23 	Section 39: Adequate Facilities and Services. Students
have the right to adequate facilities and efficient
services provided by the University. These shall aid the
overall development of the members of the Lasallian
community through well-equipped venues and well-
maintained equipment.
1.1.24 	Section 40: Safe Campus. Students, like any other
member of the University, have the right to have a
safe campus. Thus, the facilities and venues present
in the campus shall have periodical evaluation and
maintenance, the period of which shall be disclosed
appropriately to the community.
1.1.25 	Section 41: Access to Safe Spaces and Adequate
Mental Health Services. Pursuant to the University
Policies on Safe Spaces and Mental Health, students
are guaranteed access to University services and
support in fulfillment of their right to safe spaces and
adequate mental health services.
1.1.26 	Section 42: Right to Equal Access. The University
acknowledges the right of the students to equal access

-- 249 of 339 --

250
and maximized use of available campus space and
facilities. Benches, tables, swimming pools, basketball
courts, etc. in campus meant for students shall be
accessible to all who wish to use them on a principle of
right by physical presence unless reserved beforehand
with the use of a venue reservation ticket.
1.1.27 	Section 43: Prohibition against Militarization of the
Campus. The pursuit of academic excellence and
exercise of academic freedom can be attained only
in an atmosphere free from fear and unreasonable
restraint. Pursuant thereto, no military detachments
shall be installed in the campus. Military elements and/
or policemen in uniform or in plain clothes and school
security forces shall not interfere with the student
activities, particularly peaceful mass actions inside the
school campus. School officials may, however, request
their presence in cases where there is disruption of
normal school operations.
Chapter X. Right to Freedom of Expression and Opinion
1.1.27.1 	Section 44: Right to Freedom of Expression
and Opinion. Students have the right
to freedom of expression and opinion
provided that these are not contrary to
the University’s character as a Lasallian
institution and its Vision-Mission. The
students and University- recognized student
organizations have the right to:
1.1.27.1.1 	To freedom of responsible
expression, with respect to the
rights of others;
1.1.27.1.2 	To state their concerns on
matters related to the quality of
their education;
1.1.27.1.3 	To dress according to their
individual tastes in a manner
that does not infringe upon their
ability to express their personality,
self-identity, advocacy, spirituality
or religion, among other things;

-- 250 of 339 --

251
1.1.27.1.4 	To file grievance against
any member of the Lasallian
community following the
guidelines stipulated in the
Student Handbook;
1.1.27.1.5 	To free press, according to
Republic Act 7079;
1.1.27.1.6 	To freely declare their sexual
orientation and choose their
gender identity without fear of
discrimination; and
1.1.27.1.7 	To give stands on political issues
and engage in political activities
provided that the student/
organization shall not speak on
behalf of the University nor use
any University/resource for any
political activity. Any violation of
the rights stipulated above may
be raised to the USG or Grievance
Committee following the existing
policies and procedures.
1.1.27.2 	Section 45: Consumer Rights. The university
recognizes that each student possesses
basic consumer rights. Each student has the
right to be provided by the university with
goods and services with reasonable pricing
and good quality. Students have the right to
be given complete and truthful information
to make informed and intelligent product
choices. Students have the right to voice
out their complaints and concerns regarding
current market dynamics.
Chapter XI. Right to Due Process in Disciplinary Proceedings
1.1.28 	Section 46: Right to Due Process in Airing Grievances.
Students of De La Salle University are given the right
to air their grievance against any member of the
academic community. Grievances are best settled
through sincere dialogue and discussion between the
parties to a grievance, befitting a Lasallian academic

-- 251 of 339 --

252
community. Formal grievances may be pursued only
as a last resort. The procedures in handling grievances
are outlined in this section. For assistance, students
are encouraged to drop by the University Student
Government (USG) Office located at Room 303, Br.
Gabriel Connon FSC Hall.
1.1.29 	Section 47: Student Complaints & Grievances.
Students of De La Salle University have the right to
air their complaints and/or grievances against any
member of the Lasallian Community academic
community. Grievances are best settled through
sincere dialogue and discussion between the
parties to a grievance, befitting a Lasallian academic
community. Formal grievance may be pursued only
as a last resort after efforts for informal complaints
and mediation have been exhausted through student-
teacher dialogues. The procedures in handling informal
complaints and formal grievances are outlined in this
section. For assistance, students are encouraged to
reach out to the University Student Government (for
undergraduate students) or the Graduate Student
Council (for graduate students).
The rest of the Student Complaints & Grievances
provisions can be found in Section 7 of this handbook.

-- 252 of 339 --

253
APPENDIX H
DLSU MENTAL HEALTH POLICY
De La Salle University (DLSU) is a Catholic educational institution that
prioritizes and adds a premium to the mental health and well-being of
students and employees by protecting their rights and ensuring a safe
and healthy learning and working environment designed to promote a
vibrant educational and professional community. Adhering to the Mental
Health Act of the Philippines, DLSU endeavors to maintain a caring
community working together to achieve an inclusive environment free
of stigma and discrimination by promoting mental health, protecting the
basic rights of students and employees with mental health conditions,
providing responsive programs, policies and practices and facilitating
access to mental health care services.
LSU strives for excellence in providing information and raising awareness
and management skills to improve the mental health of students and
employees and capacitate the community with preventive and proactive
approaches.
DLSU ensures a supportive culture, offering assistance to students
and employees needing mental health services. It also adheres to the
protection of rights against discrimination and abuse, as well as their
right to privacy.
Lasallian Core Principles
• 	De La Salle University, as a Lasallian Institution, values the dignity of
persons and engages its members in nurturing relationships built
on respect. It promotes diversity, recognizing the unique abilities of
every member.
• 	As it pursues the Lasallian Mission, De La Salle University maintains
an inclusive community where members adhere to the principles
of “together and by association” and “no one left behind” as they
work together with greater understanding and acceptance of one
another.
• 	Guiding Principles
• 	Lasallian education is a mission and ministry directed towards the
integral human and Christian development of persons;
• 	DLSU as a Lasallian school commits to its identity as an
educational community that works towards the holistic
development of learners in all their uniqueness and diversity;

-- 253 of 339 --

254
• 	De La Salle University provides an environment that promotes the
safety and well-being of all members of the community, including
those who have mental health conditions and all the people
around them;
• 	Mental well-being is a health issue;
• 	De La Salle University takes a proactive preventive approach to
health.
Governing Laws and Regulations
• 	Republic Act 11036 (Mental Health Act), June 20, 2018
• 	Implementing Rules and Regulations of the Mental Health Act,
January 22, 2019
• 	DOLE Department Order 208, series of 2020, February 11, 2020
General Policies on Mental Health
• 	De La Salle University shall take a proactive holistic stance to the
promotion of physical and mental well-being of its community
members, and the protection of the basic rights of all members
of the community, free from discrimination and stigmatization.
it shall provide programs, processes, procedures, and support
services that favors early preventive intervention;
• 	De La Salle University shall have an integrated approach to health
and well-being covering physical, psychosocial, psychiatric, and
neurological aspects;
• 	De La Salle University shall integrate mental health in the relevant
policies and procedures of the University, including but not limited
to employment, student admission, student retention, discipline
formation, grievance, performance evaluation;
• 	Courses of action shall consider significant issues affecting
physical, psychological, and social health of both those afflicted
with mental health conditions, as well as those who may be
adversely affected by their actions. Specifically, the University shall
provide responses to persons who experience violence, abuse, and
neglect; help prevent or reduce the effects of violence; provide
information, counselling, medical treatment, forensic, examination
and support services for anyone with mental health conditions, as
well as those who have been adversely affected or been attacked
by individuals with mental health conditions particularly within the
workplace and in educational settings.

-- 254 of 339 --

255
• 	De La Salle University shall maintain and protect the confidentiality
of all information regarding the mental health of all individual
members of the community;
Basic Rights of Service Users (from Republic Act 11036)
• 	Freedom from social, economic, and political discrimination and
stigmatization, whether committed by public or private actors;
• 	Exercise all inherent civil, political, economic, social, religious,
educational, and cultural rights, respecting individual qualities,
abilities, and diversity of background, without discrimination on
the basis of physical disability, age, gender, sexual orientation, race,
color, language, religion or nationality, ethnic, or social origin;
• 	Access to evidence-based treatment of the same standard
and quality, regardless of age, sex, socioeconomic status, race,
ethnicity or sexual orientations;
• 	Access to affordable essential health and social services for the
purpose of achieving the highest attainable standard of mental
health;
• 	Access to mental health services at all levels of the national health
care system;
• 	Access to comprehensive and coordinated treatment integrating
holistic prevention, promotion, rehabilitation, care, and support,
aimed at addressing mental health care needs through a multi-
disciplinary, user-driven treatment, and recovery plan;
• 	Access to psychosocial care and clinical treatment in the least
restrictive environment and manner;
• 	Humane treatment free from solitary confinement, torture, and
other forms of cruel, inhumane, harmful or degrading treatment
and invasive procedures not backed by scientific evidence.
• 	Access to aftercare and rehabilitation when possible in the
community for the purpose of social reintegration and inclusion;
• 	Access to adequate information regarding available
multidisciplinary mental health services;
• 	Participate in mental health advocacy, policy planning, legislation,
service provision, monitoring, research, and evaluation;
• 	Confidentiality of all information, communications, and records, in
whatever form or medium stored, regarding the service user, any

-- 255 of 339 --

256
aspect of the service user’s mental health, or any treatment or care
received by the service user, which information, communications,
and records shall not be disclosed to third parties without the written
consent of the service user concerned or the service user’s legal
representative, except in the following circumstances:
• 	Disclosure is required by law or pursuant to an order issued
by a court of competent jurisdiction;
• 	The service user has expressed consent to the disclosure;
• 	A life-threatening emergency exists and such disclosure is
necessary to prevent harm or injury to the service user or to
other persons;
• 	The service user is a minor and the attending mental health
professional reasonably believes that the service user is a
victim of child abuse; or
• 	Disclosure is required in connection with an administrative,
civil, or criminal case against a mental health professional
or worker for negligence or a breach of professional ethics,
to the extent necessary to completely adjudicate, settle or
resolve any issue or controversy involved therein;
• 	Give informed consent before receiving treatment or care,
including the right to withdraw such consent. Such consent
shall be recorded in the service user’s clinical record.
• 	Participate in the development and formulation of the
psychosocial care or clinical treatment plan to be implemented;
• 	Designate or appoint a person of legal age to act as his or her legal
representative in accordance with this Act, except in cases of
impairment or temporary loss of decision-making capacity;
• 	Send or receive uncensored private communication which
may include communication by letter, telephone or electronic
means, and receive visitors at reasonable times, including the
service user’s legal representative and representatives from the
Commission of Human Rights (CHR);
• 	Legal services, through competent counsel of the service user’s
choice. In case the service user cannot afford the services of a
counsel, the Public Attorney’s Office, or a legal aid institution of
the service user or representative’s choice, shall assist the service
user;

-- 256 of 339 --

257
• 	Access to their clinical records unless, in the opinion of the
attending mental health professional, revealing such information
would cause harm to the service user’s health or put the safety
of others at risk. When any such clinical records are withheld, the
service user or his or her legal representative may contest such
decision with the internal review board created pursuant to this
Act authorized to investigate and resolve disputes, or with the
CHR;
• 	Information, within twenty-four (24) hours of admission to a
mental health facility, of the rights enumerated in this section in a
form and language understood by the service user; and
• 	By oneself or through a legal representative, to file with the
appropriate agency, complaints of improprieties, abuses in mental
health care, violations of rights of persons with mental health
needs, and seek to initiate appropriate investigation and action
against those who authorized illegal or unlawful involuntary
treatment or confinement, and other violations.

-- 257 of 339 --

258
APPENDIX I
DLSU SAFE SPACES POLICY AND PROGRAM
I. Statement of Legal Compliance
In accordance with the Republic Act No. 11313 to be known as the Safe Spaces
Act or “AN ACT DEFINING GENDER-BASED SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN STREETS,
PUBLIC SPACES, ONLINE, WORKPLACES, AND EDUCATIONAL OR TRAINING
INSTITUTIONS, PROVIDING PROTECTIVE MEASURES AND PRESCRIBING
PENALTIES THEREFORE” enacted on April 17, 2019 to address existing gaps
and issues on equality, security, and safety of both women and men in private
and public spaces; and its Implementing Rules and Regulations pursuant to
Section 38 of R.A. 11313 approved on October 28, 2019. The Safe Spaces Act
is intended to expand the scope of the Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995 or
Republic Act No. 7877. The University hereby adopts the following policy on full
promotion of the value and dignity of every human person and guarantee full
respect for human rights; recognize the role of women in nation-building and
ensure the fundamental equality, security, and safety not only in private but also
on the streets, public spaces, online, workplaces and educational and training
institutions.
II. Declaration of University Safe Spaces Policy (Purpose)
The Guiding Principles of the Philippine Lasallian Family define the kind of
the Lasallian presence and mission in the country today. As provided by the
Lasallian tradition, there are three elements that enable our participation. These
elements, taken together as one dynamic unity, provide a way of integrating
and expressing every Lasallian’s vocation: The spirit of faith allows one to
discover God’s active presence in his word, in members of the community, in
the poor, in nature, in history, and in ourselves; zeal for the integral salvation of
all allows one to actively express their faith in gospel witness and service. It is
enthusiastically giving of oneself that involves preferential concern for the poor
and the vulnerable; communion in mission, mission as communion allows one
to work in solidarity and collaborations as a way of accomplishing the mission.
Our response to the call is to be in association with the mission and articulate (1)
faith in the presence of God (2) respect for all persons (3) inclusive community
(4) quality education and (5) concern for the poor and vulnerable (Our Lasallian
Tradition, 2020).

-- 258 of 339 --

259
The Lasallian Guiding Principles defined the Poor and the vulnerable as:
“All those deprived of the means to realize their dignity as persons. In a broader
sense, these are men, women and children who suffer from various forms of
“poverty as frustration,” the impoverishment born of injustice, physical and
social evils, personal insufficiency, and failure”
DLSU as a Community of Faith and Zeal. We are guided by the life of the Gospel
emphasizing the inalienable dignity of each person and striving to develop
authentic personal relationships through trust and mutual respect. As a tertiary
school, we seek to serve and embrace each member of the community with
varied needs and diverse personal, social, and cultural backgrounds and do
so, in providing accommodations which are committed to living the Lasallian
mission.
DLSU, as an institution that facilitates personal and social development,
adheres to the mandates of the Philippine Laws to lift the dignity, respect,
and raise the awareness of its members of their rights within and beyond the
bounds of the university, specifically the observance of the Safe Spaces Act
that ensures the preservation of human dignity and assures people of their
rights.
Faithful to its mission as a Lasallian institution, we see the importance of
a policy to enable us to bring this agenda at the institutional level, where
conversations, policies, structures, programs, and support are provided to
those who need them.
III. Scope
This policy puts the implementation of Safe Spaces Act in the context of the
University community, and integrates provisions in the Commission on Higher
Education (CHED) memo on gender and development. It governs all members
of the Lasallian community composed of students, faculty members,
administration and non-teaching personnel, regardless of a person’s gender,
gender identity, gender expression, sex, age, race, or nationality.
This policy covers all that occurs on any University campus or in connection
with University programs or activities including those in a virtual environment.
The University hereby amends, as prescribed in the Implementing Rules and
Procedures of Republic Act No. 11313 or the Safe Spaces Act of 2018 and
the Policies and Guidelines for the Prevention and Investigation of Sexual
Harassment Cases, established pursuant to Republic Act No. 7877, or the Anti-
Sexual Harassment Act of 1995.

-- 259 of 339 --

260
IV. Definition of Terms
As provided in the Safe Spaces Act and the DLSU manuals and handbook, the
following are hereby defined as:
1.1 	Student refers to those enrolled in any subject or course in the
University, regardless of the number of units enrolled, those included
in the official student list of the Office of Registrar (OUR) and Office of
Academic Services for Integrated School (OASIS), whether enrolled,
on official leave of absence (LOA), on residency, or absence without
leave (AWOL); and those allowed to graduate from the University and
Integrated School (IS) but has not yet secured the required clearances
from the University;
1.2 	Employee refers to a person, who in exchange for remuneration,
agrees to perform specified services for another person, who
exercises fundamental control over the work regardless of the term
or duration of agreement. As provided in the RA11313 Safe Space
Act, that for the purposes of the law and these rules, a person who
is detailed to an entity under a subcontracting or secondment
agreement shall be considered an employee.
1.3 	Employer refers to those who exercise control over the employee. For
DLSU, employer pertains to the following:
1.3.1 	Board of Trustees
1.3.2 	Central administration or university administration refers to
those employed by the University for supervisory positions
or those that have been appointed to oversee academic
programs, support services, and other operations units.
1.4 	University Student Government and Graduate Student Council refer
to the supreme and autonomous representative body of the students,
undergraduate and graduate respectively.
1.5 	DLSU Integrated School Student Council refers to the autonomous
representative of the Integrated School student body from Preschool
to Grade 12. This term collectively includes both Student Councils for
Laguna and Senior High School Manila.
1.6 	Catcalling refers to unwanted remarks directed towards a person,
commonly done in the form of wolf-whistling and misogynistic,
transphobic, homophobic, and sexist slurs.
1.7 	Cyberstalking is a form of stalking that is committed through an
electronic medium in which online communication takes place.

-- 260 of 339 --

261
1.8 	Gender refers to a set of socially ascribed characteristics, norms, roles,
attitudes, values, and expectations identifying the social behavior of
men and women, and the relations between them.
1.9 	Gender-based online sexual harassment refers to an online conduct
targeted at a particular person that causes or likely to cause another
mental, emotional or psychological distress, and fear of personal
safety, sexual harassment acts including unwanted sexual remarks
and comments, threats, uploading or sharing of one’s photos without
consent, video and audio recordings, cyberstalking, and online identity
theft.
1.10 	Gender identity and/or expression refers to the personal sense of
identity as characterized, among others, by manner of clothing,
inclinations, and behavior in relation to masculine or feminine
conventions. A person may have a male or female identity with
physiological characteristics of the opposite sex, or may have been
assigned a particular sex at birth but who identifies with the opposite
sex, or may have an identity that does not correspond to one’s sex
assigned at birth or to one’s primary or secondary sex characteristics,
in which case this person is considered transgender.
1.11 	Homophobic remarks or slurs are any statements in whatever form
or however delivered, which are indicative of fear, hatred or aversion
towards persons who are perceived to be or actually identify as
lesbian, gay, bisexual, queer, pansexual, and such other persons of
diverse sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or towards
any person perceived to or actually have experienced same-sex
attraction.
1.12 	Information and communication system refers to a system for
generating, sending, receiving, storing or otherwise processing
electronic data messages or electronic documents and includes
the computer system or other similar devices by or in which data
are recorded or stored and any procedure related to the recording or
storage of electronic data messages or electronic documents.
1.13 	Information and communications technology or ICT shall mean the
totality of electronic means to access, create, collect, store, process,
receive, transmit, present, and disseminate information.
1.14 	Misogynistic remarks or slurs are any statements in whatever form or
however delivered, that are indicative of the feeling of hating women
or the belief that men are inherently better than women.

-- 261 of 339 --

262
1.15 	Sexist remarks or slurs are statements in whatever form or
however delivered, that are indicative of prejudice, stereotyping, or
discrimination on the basis of sex, typically against women.
1.16 	Transphobic remarks or slurs are any statements in whatever form
or however delivered, that are indicative of fear, hatred or aversion
towards persons whose gender identity and/or expression do not
conform with their sex assigned at birth.
1.17 	Stalking refers to conduct directed at a person involving the repeated
visual or physical proximity, non-consensual communication, or a
combination thereof that cause or will likely cause a person to fear
for one’s own safety or the safety of others, or to suffer emotional
distress.
V. Policy Statement
De La Salle University recognizes its role in assuring the holistic development
of the individual through collaborative and capacitating engagements. In
greater recognition of this role, the University maintains integrity in service of
the Lasallian community, upholds the rights and dignity of every individual, and
guarantees full respect for human rights.
De La Salle University believes that all individuals should be treated equally. It
welcomes learners, educators, and support staff from all backgrounds. It is
committed to creating and maintaining an inclusive learning environment,
recognizing and respecting diverse perspectives in all issues. It looks upon
difference and plurality as sources of creativity, personal, and communal
enrichment, as well as encouraging grounds for the practice of mindfulness. It
supports all kinds of engagement that furthers understanding and appreciation
of different ways of being in the world.
In light of this, De La Salle University therefore fights all forms of sexual
harassment, and promotes a harassment- and violence-free environment--
both physical and virtual--for all, and shall take effective measures to foster a
safe space for all.
• 	The University further affirms that every member of the Lasallian
community, enjoys and is assured of:
• 	Right to a community free of harassment
• 	Right as a survivor, to report inappropriate conduct without retaliation or
repercussions
• 	Right as a witness or confidant, to report inappropriate conduct without
retaliation or repercussions
• 	Right as a respondent, to due process and appropriate hearing
procedures

-- 262 of 339 --

263
• 	Right to a quick and thorough investigation that shall observe
confidentiality and respect for privacy
• 	Right to seek help, both for mental or physical health
Further, it commits itself in ensuring that the following are responded to:
• 	Gender responsive curriculum through mainstreaming strategies,
including research activities,
• 	Periodic audit of policies, guidelines, structures and mechanisms to
support gender equality and safe spaces,
• 	Training and development support for faculty and partners in the
implementation of related programs, and
• 	Integration of relevant programs in the institutional plans.
VI. Communication of this Policy
• 	Every member of DLSU shall familiarize themselves with this policy.
• 	DLSU will highlight this policy through:
• 	consciousness-raising campaigns, including the
posting of the University Policy and other relevant
materials in public spaces on campus, and releasing of
information through HDAs.
• 	holding training sessions, especially to the members of
the pool for CODI
• 	free seminars/webinars on the Safe Spaces Act and the
DLSU Safe Spaces Policy
• 	including a discussion of the Safe Spaces Act and
the DLSU Safe Spaces Policy in GENDERS and related
courses
• 	creating discussion forums on Gender and Gender-
related issues.
• 	making the anti-sexual harassment orientation and
clearance a component of the student curriculum,
personnel related actions, such as hiring, tenure and
promotion, and accreditation of service contractors,
and partner entity engagements.
VII. Sexual Harassment and Discrimination
A. Sexual harassment Defined: any unwanted, unwelcome, uninvited
sexual advances, request for sexual favour, verbal or physical conduct or
gesture of a sexual nature, or any other behaviour of a sexual nature, or

-- 263 of 339 --

264
any offensive remarks about a person’s sex, sexual orientation, gender
expression, or gender identity that might reasonably be expected or be
perceived to cause offence or humiliation to another, when such conduct
interferes with work, is made a condition of employment or creates an
intimidating, hostile or offensive environment. While typically involving
a pattern of behaviour, it can take the form of a single incident. Sexual
harassment may occur between persons of the opposite or same sex.
Both males and females can be either the survivors or the offenders.
B. Discrimination Defined: refers to any distinction, exclusion or restriction
which has the purpose or effect of nullifying the recognition, enjoyment or
exercise, on an equal basis with others, of all human rights and fundamental
freedoms in the political, economic, social, cultural, civil, or any other field.
VIII. Acts of Sexual Harassment and Other Sexual Offenses:
Acts of sexual harassment and discrimination, as defined in RA 11313, are
classified as light, less grave, and grave offenses, which are as follows:
1.1 	Light Offenses shall include, but are not limited to:
1.17.1 	Unwanted remarks with sexual overtones;
1.17.2 	Unwelcome sexual innuendos which may be in the form of
statements, questions, or jokes;
1.17.3 	Repeated unwanted comments on one’s appearance that
may degrade, humiliate, insult, or offend the receiver/s;
1.17.4 	Covert glances on a person’s private parts or underclothing;
1.17.5 	Other analogous cases.
2.2 	Less Grave Offenses shall include, but are not limited to:
2.17.1 	Repeated sexual jokes or comments that may degrade,
humiliate, insult, or offend people who may hear;
2.17.2 	Repeated verbal abuse with sexual undertones;
2.17.3 	Making offensive hand or body gestures that may resemble
sexual activities;
2.17.4 	Creating rumors about one’s gender orientation, identity,
and/or sex life;
2.17.5 	Not considering a person for a role based on their sex,
orientation, gender identity, and expression;

-- 264 of 339 --

265
2.17.6 	Making derogatory or degrading remarks directed towards
one’s sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or sexual
activities;
2.17.7 	Repeated offensive hand or body gestures that may
resemble sexual activities;
2.17.8 	Invasion of the survivor’s privacy through cyberstalking and
incessant messaging;
2.17.9 	Other analogous cases.
3.3 	Grave Offenses shall include, but are not limited to:
3.17.1 	Unwanted touching or brushing of the offender’s genitals to
any part of another’s body or any part of the offender’s body
with another’s genital;
3.17.2 	Groping and touching of private parts that include, but not
limited to, breasts, genitals, and buttocks;
3.17.3 	Forcing someone to kiss or engage in sexual activities;
3.17.4 	Attempted or consummated unwanted and forced sexual
intercourse or torture in a sexual manner;
3.17.5 	Sexual activities that deprive the survivor of their liberty;
3.17.6 	Requesting for sexual favor in exchange for employment,
promotion, local or
3.17.7 	foreign travels, favorable working conditions or assignments,
a passing grade, the granting of honors or scholarship, or the
grant of benefits or payment of a stipend or allowance;
3.17.8 	Physical, psychological, and emotional threats, unwanted
sexual misogynistic, transphobic, homophobic, and sexist
remarks and comments online whether publicly or through
direct and private messages;
3.17.8.1 Unwanted recording or taking of photos or videos
or any other recording that are directed towards a person’s
private parts or underclothing;
3.17.8.2 Uploading, sharing, and spreading photos, videos,
or any information online —whether real or edited—without
the knowledge and consent of the survivor that may cause
damage to one’s reputation;

-- 265 of 339 --

266
3.17.8.3 Impersonating identities of victims online or
posting lies about the victims to harm their reputation; or
3.17.8.4 Filing false abuse reports to online platforms to
silence victims.
4.4 	Physical assault of a sexual nature, such as but not limited to rape,
sexual battery, molestation, or attempts to commit these assaults;
and
5.5 	Other analogous cases.
IX. Committee on Decorum and Investigation (CODI)
A. A Committee on Decorum and Investigation (CODI) shall be constituted for
each case in accordance with the prescribed standards of the Safe Spaces Act.
B. Principal Function. The Committee shall serve as an independent internal
grievance mechanism that will act as the main body in the investigation and
resolution of cases of all forms of sexual harassment and discrimination, as
those involving violations of the Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995, the
RA11313 or The Safe Spaces Act, and any of the prohibited acts defined in these
implementing policies and guidelines, in particular.
C. As provided in the RA11313, the CODI shall be chaired by a woman, and not
less than half of its members shall be women. To ensure equal representation,
at least one member will be from the LGBTQI sector. Appointment of alternates
to meet this criterion shall be made.
D. All regular members shall appoint their respective permanent alternates who
shall act on their behalf, and with authority to render decision, in case they are
not available or when inhibition from the case has been made.
E. There shall be a pool of members who shall be trained to handle cases. The
CODIs shall be drawn from this pool. Members of the Council for Inclusion,
Diversity and Well-being (CIDW) shall no longer be members of this pool and
shall not be assigned to be a part of any CODI.
F. Any of the parties, including the complainant and/or respondent, may
request for a CODI member to inhibit themselves. The decision shall be made
by the UCODI Chair, and affirmed by majority vote of the members excluding
the member being questioned. The following may be grounds for conflict of
interest, and may serve as a basis for granting of inhibition.
i. Relation by consanguinity or affinity
ii. Initiative of the member, for reason of close affiliation with any of the
parties

-- 266 of 339 --

267
G. Issues raised by either parties on the member’s ability to be impartial on the
case. There shall be two types of CODIs
CODI for Cases Involving Faculty and Employees Only:
i. 	Jurisdiction. This Committee shall have jurisdiction over all (a)
employees, whether regular or probationary, (b) faculty, whether full-time
or part-time, (c) all other employees who have subsisting and executory
employment contracts with the University, verbal or written or on a
trimestral or yearly basis, when the complainant is another faculty or
employee.
ii. 	Composition
1. Representative from top management (academic if case is faculty
vs. faculty)
2. Representative from employees from the supervisory rank
(academic if case is faculty vs faculty)
3. Representative from rank-and-file employees (academic if case is
faculty vs. faculty)
4. Representative from the Unions and Employee Associations
(this would be AFED and/or DLSUEA, or DLSU IS Faculty Association,
depending on the parties).
CODI For Cases Involving Students:
i. Jurisdiction. The Committee shall have jurisdiction over (a) employees,
whether regular or probationary, (b) faculty, whether full-time or part-time,
(c) all other employees who have subsisting and executory employment
contracts with the University, verbal or written or on a trimestral or yearly
basis, and (d) all students, whether in integrated school, undergraduate,
graduate or under exchange or non-degree programs, full-time or part-
time, and as defined in the Student Handbook, when the complainant or
respondent is a student
ii. 	Composition
1. Representative from the school administrators
2. Representative from the faculty to represent the trainers, instructors,
professors or coaches
3. Representative from administrative employees
4. Representative from the students
5. Representative from the parents

-- 267 of 339 --

268
H. Powers and Functions
i. 	Investigates, hears and decides cases for which it was constituted.
ii. 	Issues subpoenas and other necessary writs and processes for the
effective, efficient, objective, and impartial, and expedient disposition of
cases.
iii. 	Makes factual and administrative findings, renders the corresponding
decision, and imposes the appropriate penalty in accordance with these
policies and guidelines.
iv. 	Exercises other powers necessary to effectuate the Anti-Sexual
Harassment Act of 1995 and the Safe Spaces Act.
I. Jurisdiction. The Committee shall have jurisdiction over all (a) employees,
whether regular or probationary, (b) faculty, whether full-time or part-time, (c) all
other employees who have subsisting and executory employment contracts
with the University, verbal or written or on a trimestral or yearly basis, and (d)
all students, whether in integrated school, undergraduate, graduate or under
exchange or non-degree programs, full-time or part-time, and as defined in the
Student Handbook.
J. Mandate to Investigate. The University adheres to the IRR of Safe Spaces Act
that requires prompt investigation to determine the veracity of information or
knowledge and the circumstances that under which the act of GBSH or sexual
violence were committed or reasonably know an impending act of such and
take appropriate steps to collate evidence on its own initiative, and if necessary,
relay the evidence for the conduct of an investigation by the Committee on
Decorum and Investigation. This provision is regardless whether there was an
official complaint filed or a request for the University to take action.
X. Procedures
A. The CODI shall, at all times, observe due process, investigate and decide on
written complaints within ten (10) working days or less upon receipt
B. It shall also ensure an appeal process for respondents.
C. All sexual harassment and discrimination complaints must be filed with the
Lasallian Center for Inclusion, Diversity and Well-being (LCIDWell) through its
Coordinator for Gender Responsiveness and Safe Spaces.
D. Filing. Any form of sexual harassment or gender-based discrimination
committed may be reported verbally or in writing, in English or Filipino, by the
complainant, or by any person on behalf of the alleged victim. Formal reports
must be signed and notarized by the aggrieved party and accomplished in three
(3) copies. It must contain the following:
1. 	The name and office or affiliation of the individual against whom the
complaint is filed;
2. 	A narration of the circumstances with supporting evidences or
documents attached.

-- 268 of 339 --

269
E. All informal reports done verbally or any other informal means shall be
reduced in writing by the Coordinator for Gender Responsiveness and Safe
Spaces using the prescribed complaint form signed by the aggrieved party or
representative of the aggrieved party; provided, that all supporting documents
submitted shall be attached thereto;
1. 	In case of incidents reported anonymously, or incidents that have
come to the knowledge of LCIDWell without a formal complaint, the
Coordinator for Gender Responsiveness and Safe Spaces will make an
inquiry on the incident. In the case of the Integrated School, anonymous
reports or incidents that have come to the knowledge of the Student
Discipline and Formation Unit (SDFU) without a formal complaint, the
SDFU Director will create the incident report for submission to the
Coordinator for Gender and Development and Safe Spaces.
F. Upon receipt of a Complaint, the Coordinator for Gender Responsiveness
and Safe Spaces will notify the immediate Supervisor for employees, and the
Associate Dean for undergraduate and graduate students. For the Integrated
School, it will be the Principal and the Associate Principal for Student Affairs.
G. Interview. The Coordinator for Gender Responsiveness and Safe Spaces shall
determine the particulars of the incident to be attested to by the aggrieved
party for the purpose of verifying the complaint and providing adequate
support and assistance to the victim.
H. Notice. – Within five (5) working days from receipt of the complaint,
Coordinator for Gender Responsiveness and Safe Spaces shall serve a notice
of complaint upon the person complained of with copies of all pertinent
documents.
I. If the student involved in the case, whether complainant or respondent, is
below 18, his/her parent or guardian shall be served with a notice of complaint
with copies of all pertinent documents.
J. Answer. – Upon receipt of the notice of complaint, the respondent is
required to submit to the Lasallian Center for Inclusion, Diversity and Well-
being (LCIDWell) three (3) copies of the Counter-Affidavit/Answer, signed and
notarized, within three (3) working days from receipt of the notice, furnishing
a copy to the complainant; otherwise, the Counter-Affidavit/Answer shall
be considered as not filed. The answer, which must be written, signed and
notarized, shall be specific and shall contain material facts and applicable
laws, if any, including documentary evidence/s, sworn statements covering
testimonies of witnesses, if any, in support of the respondent’s case. It shall also
include a statement indicating whether he/she elects a formal investigation.
The answer must be filed within three (3) days from receipt thereof.
K. Prima Facie Determination of Sexual Harassment and all gender-related

-- 269 of 339 --

270
offenses shall be the role of the University Legal Counsel. The prima facie
determination is not appealable.
L. Issuance of Formal Charge. After the evaluation of the case by OULC, and
once prima facie has been established, the complaint shall be given clearance
to proceed. A formal charge will be made against any or all of the respondents
within ten (10) working days from the receipt of the Lasallian Center for Inclusion,
Diversity and Well-being (LCIDWell) report and recommendation/s.
M. The Council for Inclusion, Diversity and Well-being (CIDW), in coordination
with the Coordinator for Gender Responsiveness and Safe Spaces shall also
form a CODI and recommend this to the CIDW Chair who shall then convene the
Council for approval. The CIDW will then formally constitute the CODI assigned
for the said case.
N. The process in the conduct of hearing shall be prepared by LCIDWell, and shall
be approved by the CIDW, pursuant to the provisions stipulated in both RA7877
and RA11313.
XI. Corrective Measures. Sanctions and corrective measures shall be
determined according to the gravity of the offense.
a. For students
i. 	For light offenses
1st offense – Severe reprimand and gender sensitivity reorientation
2nd offense – Suspension for 1 term and gender sensitivity
reorientation
3rd offense – Dismissal or Expulsion
ii. 	For less grave offenses
1st offense – Community service of 2 terms and gender sensitivity
reorientation
2nd offense – Suspension up to a year and gender sensitivity
reorientation
3rd offense – Dismissal or Expulsion
iii. 	For Grave offenses
1st offense - Suspension with formation session to expulsion
2nd offense – Dismissal or Expulsion
b. For teaching and non-teaching employees
i. 	For light offenses
1st offense – Severe reprimand and gender sensitivity reorientation
2nd offense – Suspension without pay, with prejudice to subsequent
promotion, reclassification, for a period of up to three years, with
gender sensitivity reorientation
3rd offense – Dismissal

-- 270 of 339 --

271
ii. 	For less grave offenses
1st offense – Suspension without pay, with prejudice to subsequent
promotion, reclassification, for a period of up to three years, with
gender sensitivity reorientation
2nd offense – Dismissal
iii. 	For grave offenses
1st offense – Dismissal from the University
c. Non-teaching personnel
They shall adhere to the provisions stipulated in the agreement between their
employers and with the University which may include, but is not limited to,
formation sessions, severe reprimand, suspension without pay, with prejudice
to subsequent promotion, reclassification and permanency and/or dismissal
from the University.
d. Additional Corrective Measures. Supplementary to the sanctions, the
additional corrective measures below may be imposed within the period of
service of the corrective measure. The measures include, but are not limited to:
i. Written or oral apology whichever is deemed necessary;
ii. Well-being treatment; and,
iii. Appropriate fines, if necessary.
e. In determining whether corrective measures are appropriate or necessary,
the following factors may be taken into consideration:
i. nature and circumstances of the act committed;
ii. frequency and severity of the act; personal circumstances of the person
complained of/ respondent (e.g., age, maturity, position, or rank)
iii. safety of the parties or community; and,
iv. such other relevant factors.
These corrective measures may also be adopted in complaints submitted for
disposition under the informal procedure.
XII. Supplementary Provisions
a. Preventive Suspension. Upon the determination of a prima facie case, the
OULC may recommend to the Provost or President, as the case may be, may
suspend any student, teaching or non- teaching personnel, for a non-extendible
period of not more than ninety (90) days from the issuance of formal charge;
provided, that no suspension shall be beyond the maximum imposable penalty.
i. 	An order of preventive suspension may be issued to temporarily
remove the respondent from the scene of his/her malfeasance or
misfeasance and to preclude the possibility of his/her exerting undue

-- 271 of 339 --

272
influence or pressure on the witnesses against his/her tampering of
documentary evidence on file with this Office.
ii. 	A respondent under preventive suspension may be prohibited from
any or all of the following:
1. Attending classes and academic activities/rendering work;
2. Entering DLSU academic offices / buildings and their premises;
3. Using DLSU campus facilities, including but not limited to, athletic
facilities, libraries, and computer laboratories; except dormitories for
athlete residents, health service, and others as may be recommended
4. Participating in DLSU activities within university premises;
5. Holding student/office jobs; and,
6. Enjoying IT privileges as defined by the current policies on IT uses and
resources of the University, except online enrolment.
b. Protection Order. For the purpose of preventing retaliatory acts such as but
not limited to, disciplining, changing work assignments, or refusing to cooperate
or discuss work or school related matters with the complainant because they
complained about or resisted harassment, discrimination or retaliation or
continuing acts of sexual harassment, a Protection Order may be issued by
the Provost or President, as the case may be, on his/her own initiative, or upon
application by the complainant, or upon the recommendation of the UCODI.
i. A Protection Order may be temporary or permanent. A Temporary
Protection Order (TPO) may be issued for not more than ninety (90) days
unless the charge is for a grave offense, in which case the TPO is issued
for the duration of the proceedings. A Permanent Protection Order (PPO)
may be issued as part of the corrective measures.
ii. The reliefs granted under a Protection Order shall serve the purpose
of safeguarding the complainant from further harm, minimizing any
disruption to their daily life, and facilitating their opportunity and ability
to independently regain control over their life. The provisions of the
Protection Order shall be enforced by the Academic Unit or Office that
has authority over the respondent.
iii. Violation of the TPO/PPO shall be subject to immediate disciplinary
action as recommended by the UCODI to the Provost.
c. Alternative Dispute Resolution. This provides the aggrieved party and the
respondent the opportunity to settle cases amicably, either through mediation
by the Lasallian Center for Inclusion, Diversity and Well-being (LCIDWell), if
possible within the nature of the case, and with the presence of their respective
representatives. It may be resorted to only in one complaint of sexual
harassment; provided, that these three requisites occur: it is the first complaint
against the person being complained of; the complaint is a light offense; the

-- 272 of 339 --

273
case is peer-to-peer.
d. Appeal. The party aggrieved by the decision of the CODI may file an appeal to
the Provost through the Committee within five (5) working days from receipt of
the decision. For Faculty and ASF, when the penalty is severance of service or
dismissal, the case shall be automatically reviewed by the Service Review Board
as prescribed in the 2021 Faculty Manual.
e. Resort of the Courts. Nothing in this policy shall preclude the aggrieved party
from instituting a separate and independent action for damages and other
affirmative relief.
f. Malicious Prosecution. While the University is totally committed to the
safeguarding of the rights of all members of the academic community against
sexual harassment, it is likewise the policy of the University to protect the same
members from any malicious accusation and prosecution involving alleged
acts of sexual harassment which are baseless and non-existent. This will be
referred to the applicable grievance or disciplinary procedure of the University.
g. Independent Action for Damages. Nothing in this policy shall preclude
the aggrieved party from instituting a separate and independent action for
damages and other affirmative relief.
h. Prescriptive Period. All complaints for sexual harassment or gender-based
sexual harassment (discrimination) shall be filed with the Lasallian Center for
Inclusion, Diversity and Well-being (LCIDWell), and may be done at any point of
a complainant’s stay in the University or as provided for in the IRR of RA11313
particularly on Sec. 46-Prescriptive period.
i. In case a sexual harassment incident happened during the time
when a respondent was a bona fide student of DLSU, but is no longer
associated with the University (e.g. graduate) at the time of discovery
or filing of an independent case by an aggrieved party, the University
can withhold the respondent’s good moral certificate and rescind their
diploma if found guilty.
ii. In case a respondent was a professor or employee during the time
of occurrence of the sexual harassment incident, but is no longer
associated with the University at the time of discovery or filing of
an external case by an aggrieved party, the University shall impose a
perpetual employment ban on the respondent if found guilty.
i. Confidentiality Clause. At any stage of the investigation, prosecution, and trial
of an offense under this policy, the rights of the survivor and the accused shall
be recognized and upheld.
i. In all cases of Sexual Harassment and Discrimination as enumerated
in this policy and the supporting laws, the confidentiality of records on
the survivor, and when the accused is a minor, will be protected.

-- 273 of 339 --

274
j. Amendment. The Provost, with the approval of the Council for Inclusion,
Diversity and Well-being shall call for the review of this policy or parts of it by
members of the Lasallian Community periodically. Any member of the Lasallian
Community may propose amendments through an initiative, and may do so
with the USG. The amendment, as approved by the CIDW, shall take effect on
the first day of the succeeding term.
k. Repealing Clause. All administrative orders, rules, regulations, memoranda,
circulars, resolutions, and other issuances or orders contrary to the provisions
of the DLSU Safe Spaces Policy or inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed,
modified or amended accordingly. This also amends Appendix M (Policies and
Guidelines for the Prevention and Investigation of Sexual Harassment Cases) of
the Faculty Manual
l. Effectivity Clause. This policy shall take effect seven (7) days from publication
in DLSU’s official publication and platforms.
XIII. Complaints under this Policy
Complaints under this policy should be reported to the Lasallian Center for
Inclusion, Diversity and Well-being (LCIDWell), (enumerated in Section VIII of this
Safe Spaces Policy) (LCIDWell email: lcidw@dlsu.edu.ph).
APPENDIX J: ZERO-TOLERANCE FOR ALL FORMS OF
VIOLENCE POLICY
Section 1: Declaration of the Zero Tolerance for All Forms of Violence
Policy
In fulfillment of R.A. 11053, otherwise known as “Anti-Hazing Act of
2018”, and in recognition of the University’s responsibility to safeguard
and protect the Lasallian Community from all forms of violence, the
University hereby adopts a policy for Zero Tolerance for All Forms
of Violence initiated by students and those who are members of
recognized and unrecognized student organizations. It is through these
proactive steps that we may continue to protect our students from
activities that result in physical and psychological harm.
Likewise, the University recognizes the right of students to
democratically participate in student organizations, alliances, and
federations which promote and protect students’ rights and welfare
pursuant to our collective right to organize and mobilize (Article III,
Section 8 of the 1987 Philippine Constitution, otherwise known as the Bill
of Rights). Moreover, “No law shall be passed abridging the freedom of
speech, of expression, or of the press, or the right of the people peaceably
to assemble and petition the government for redress of grievances”.

-- 274 of 339 --

275
As such, it is through this policy that we strongly encourage all student-
members of recognized and unrecognized organizations to exercise
due diligence and utmost responsibility in its democratic participation
in organizations, alliances, and federations and in partaking in student
activities, provided, that no actions result in the in the contradiction of
the University’s vision and mission, as well as the state’s governing laws.
Section 2: Scope
The policy covers all students in the Lasallian community. This also
covers any actions done by students in the Lasallian community
whether committed within and outside of University premises (as
defined in Section 5.5.3 of the Student Handbook 2018-2021), and
online.
Section 3: Definition of Terms
3.1 Hazing as cited in Republic Act No. 11053 is the “...any act that
results in physical or psychological suffering, harm, or injury inflicted
on a recruit, neophyte, applicant, or member as part of an initiation
rite or practice made as a prerequisite for admission or a requirement
for continuing membership in a fraternity, sorority, or organization
including, but not limited to paddling, whipping, beating, branding,
forced calisthenics, exposure to the weather, forced consumption
of any food, liquor, beverage, drug or other substance, or any other
brutal treatment or forced physical activity which is likely to adversely
affect the physical and psychological health of such recruit, neophyte,
applicant, or member. This shall also include any activity, intentionally
made or otherwise, by one person alone or acting with others, that
tends to humiliate or embarrass, degrade, abuse, or endanger, by
requiring a recruit, neophyte, applicant, or member to do menial, silly, or
foolish tasks.”
3.2 Organization as cited in Republic Act No. 11053 refers to “...
organized body of people which includes, but it is not limited to, any
club, association, group, fraternity, and sorority. This term shall include
the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP), the Philippine National Police
(PNP), the Philippine Military Academy (PMA), the Philippine National
Police Academy (PNPA), and other similar uniformed service learning
institutions.”
3.3 Exclusion, as defined by the Commission on Higher Education, is
the “penalty that allows the institution to exclude or drop the name
of the erring student from the roll of students immediately upon
resolution for exclusion was promulgated.”

-- 275 of 339 --

276
3.4 Expulsion, as defined by the Commission on Higher Education, is
“penalty wherein the institution declares an erring student disqualified
for admission to any public or private higher education institution in the
Philippines.”
3.4.1. A student may only be penalized with expulsion upon
the approval of the current Chairperson of the Commission on
Higher Education.
3.5 Recidivist, as defined by Revised Penal Code (Republic Act 3815)
are individuals who “at the time of his trial for one crime, shall have
been previously convicted by final judgment of another crime”. For the
purposes of this student handbook, this refers to a student who has been
found to be responsible for an offense and is now, again, undergoing a
disciplinary procedure for committing the same or another offense.
3.6 Welcoming Activities are activities that are a prerequisite for
membership in a student organization or serve as an activity to orient and
welcome new members. Included under welcoming activities are general
assemblies, orientations, recruitment, auditions, initiation or initiation
rites.
3.6.1 Initiation or Initiation Rites as defined in Republic Act No.
11053 refers to “...ceremonies, practices, rituals, or other acts,
whether formal or informal, that a person must perform or take
part in order to be accepted into fraternity, sorority, organization
as a full-fledged member. It includes ceremonies, practices ,
rituals, and other acts in all stages of membership in a fraternity,
sorority, or organization.”
Section 4: Zero-Tolerance for All Forms of Violence
In its commitment to safeguard and protect the Lasallian Community, De
La Salle University expresses its zero tolerance for all forms of violence
within its community spaces and among its student organizations.
Reflecting the principles of our Founder, we are called by the Lasallian
Educational Mission to strengthen our commitment in forming vibrant
communities of faith and in the democratization of our societies. As we
associate with one another and understand our differences, we must not
resort to our individualistic desires and treat each other as competition.
It is through our communal discernment and accompaniment of one
another that we may embody our faith in the Lasallian principle of
Association. Through the Lasallian mission, we are called to strongly
denounce all forms of violence and instead, commit ourselves into being
a safe space where we may freely exercise our principles and express our
sense of belonging.

-- 276 of 339 --

277
APPENDIX K: DIGITAL CITIZENSHIP POLICY
Executive Summary
The DLSU Digital Citizenship Policy is created to provide the grounding
principles on digital technology in the conduct of the various activities
that support teaching and learning in the University.
This policy intends to expand and include the different members of the
DLSU digital community: students, teachers, staff, administrators, other
stakeholders, and parents. The policy covers the essential elements
of digital citizenship used to identify priority programs and services.
These elements are digital access, etiquette, commerce, rights and
responsibilities, literacy, law, communication, health and wellness, and
security.
The DLSU Digital Citizenship Policy Statement outlines principles
aligned with the core beliefs and values shared by the DLSU Community,
operating in the digital or virtual environment. These principles will guide
and align the creation, upkeep, review for relevance, and currency of
other policies, guidelines, and procedures of the University.
The fundamental principles revolve around safety and protection,
respect, and education of the members of the DLSU Community in
accessing, using, interacting, and transacting in the digital world.
a. 	Be Safe: Protect Yourself and Others → Protect the Lasallian
Community and me in the digital environment.
b. 	Be Savvy: Educate Yourself and Others → Continuously
educate ourselves and be critical and responsible in the use of
technology.
c. 	Be Social: Respect Yourself and Others → “Digital” citizens
create a safe digital space where mutual respect exists.
The primary principles are:
Principle 1: The Digital Self is not distinct from Real-World Self
Principle 2: Digital Citizenship is in All Digital Spaces
Principle 3: Online Media Literacy and University Responsibility to
Online Safety and Protection
Principle 4: Promoting Accountability and Due Diligence
The Policy aligns with the existing laws and technology-related policies
and serves as the reference policy in the manuals and guidelines of the
members of the DLSU Community.

-- 277 of 339 --

278
I. Purpose
“A better world is possible thanks to technological progress if this is
accompanied by an ethic inspired by a vision of the common good,
an ethic of freedom, responsibility, and fraternity, capable of fostering
the full development of people in relation to others and to the whole of
creation.” Pope Francis, “Common Good in the Digital Age (2019)”
Lasallian education is grounded on the life experiences of its learners
and prepares them for successful placement in society, especially in the
workplace (The Declaration on the Lasallian Educational Mission, 2020).
As a Lasallian tertiary school, De La Salle University recognizes its crucial
role in preparing citizens and professionals who will be society’s next
leaders.
The process of Lasallian formation enables persons to acquire the vision,
values, attitudes, and practices that will allow them to freely and willingly
collaborate with God in building a community that reflects the Gospel
values (Guiding Principles of the Philippine Lasallian Family, 2009). Three
elements allow Lasallians to participate in God’s action in the world.
Taken together as one dynamic unity, these elements integrate and
articulate the Lasallian vocation:
The spirit of faith allows one to discover God’s active presence
in the world, to interpret, judge, and evaluate things in the light of
the gospel, to unite one’s actions and intentions with God’s, and to
rely on God’s providence in acting in discerning God’s will.
Zeal is the active expression of faith in gospel witness and
service. It is oriented towards the integral salvation of persons
and is expressed as the enthusiastic and wholehearted giving of
oneself to serve others, especially the poor and the vulnerable.
Communion in mission suggests solidarity and collaboration from
sharing in one vision, one spirit, and one mission. It is a way of
relating to others that suggests openness to all persons and the
desire to be brother or sister to all, especially those in need.
Guided by these principles, De La Salle University declares itself a
Lasallian educational community where all sectors are committed to
ensuring the integral human and Christian development of all learners
and are co-responsible for creating a culture and climate conducive to
genuine learning and character formation.

-- 278 of 339 --

279
Technological innovations have redefined the way we interact, learn,
and transact with each other. Whether we like it or not, we are forced
to engage with one another in the digital world. While there are more
conventional ways of working and interacting in the physical space, our
engagement with each other using the Internet and other digital tools
is less defined. This could lead to confusion and tensions, especially
when our ways of engaging with members of the Lasallian community
and the larger society do not meet underlying expectations.
We must define how we ought to interact and engage with each
other in the digital space while being true to our Guiding Principles.
We recognize our university’s role in forming citizens capable of
exercising their rights, fulfilling their duties, defending the public good,
strengthening the social fabric, participating in democratic processes,
and being concerned about policies and politics (The Declaration,
2020). Therefore, our duty as a Lasallian institution is to create a school
environment conducive to respect and order, by establishing explicit
norms and policies, not only in the physical but also in the digital space.
Hence, this Digital Citizenship Policy aims to articulate our collective
agreements on how we, as a Lasallian community, would like to engage,
interact, and relate with each other in the digital environment.
II. 	Scope
The policy encapsulates the responsible use of technology in the
teaching and learning process and all other aspects of life within the
DLSU community. The policy provides the principles and guidelines
in the conduct of the various programs and services in academics,
research, engagement, and administration by all community
members, expressly but not limited to the students in all levels, faculty,
administrators, staff, and partners, and other stakeholders. Moreover,
developing the policy also engaged the active participation of parents,
who are instrumental in developing students to become responsible
digital citizens.
This policy intends to expand and include the different members of the
DLSU digital community: students, teachers, staff, administrators, other
stakeholders, and parents. The policy covers the essential elements of
digital citizenship, also used to identify priority programs and services.
These elements are digital access, etiquette, commerce, rights and
responsibilities, literacy, law, communication, health and wellness, and
security.
The policy is guided by and aligned with the following technology-

-- 279 of 339 --

280
related laws:
1. 	Anti-Bullying Act of 2013
2. 	Cybercrime Prevention Act (RA 10175)
3. 	Data Privacy Act (RA 10173)
4. 	Anti Photo and Video Voyeurism Act (RA 9995)
5. 	e-Commerce Act (RA 8792)
6. 	Safe Spaces Act (RA 11313)
7. 	Intellectual Property Law
III. Definition of Terms
DLSU Community
The DLSU community is composed of the students, faculty, staff,
administrators, parents, external partners, and other stakeholders of the
University.
Digital Citizen
A digital citizen is an individual who uses the internet regularly and
effectively. (Mossberger, Tolbert, & McNeal, 2008). The individual is
expected to be responsible for using technology to respect, educate and
protect oneself and others.
Digital Citizenship
Digital citizenship is the ability to participate in society online.
(Mossberger, Tolbert, & McNeal, 2008). Digital citizenship encompasses
membership in a virtual community where each citizen has rights
and responsibilities. Digital citizenship requires the development and
compliance to behavioral norms that are appropriate & responsible in
the utilization of technology. These norms shape the community culture
grounded on respect, motivates active and accountable participation of
members, and bring forth positive attitudes toward each other.
Digital Access
Digital Access allows full participation in the digital society. It provides
fair access to technology and encourages proper use to enhance
the learning process of all involved. The university develops policies

-- 280 of 339 --

281
and support mechanisms to make technology accessible to all its
stakeholders.
Digital Etiquette
Digital Etiquette refers to the electronic standards of conduct or
procedural norms that shape the behavior of technology users. This set
of criteria integrates the Lasallian values emphasizing responsible and
respectful behavior of stakeholders in the online environment.
Digital Commerce
Digital commerce refers to the online buying and selling of goods. All
digital citizens, in one way or another, participate in digital commerce.
Thus, the Lasallian digital citizenship policy includes the norms of
behavior that will protect all members of the Lasallian community as
they engage in digital commerce.
Digital Rights and Responsibilities
Digital citizenship affords its members rights, and along with those rights
come responsibilities. As digital citizens, Lasallians are given the right to
use the Internet for their work and education. Still, some expectations
and responsibilities go along with this right.
Digital Literacy
Digital literacy includes not just the basic skills needed to operate digital
technologies, but more importantly the capacity to evaluate and use
digital information critically in order to transform it into knowledge
(Buckingham, 2006). Thus, digitally literate individuals can ask questions
about sources of such information, the agenda of its producers, and
how this information represents the world and relates to broader social,
political, and economic factors that affect society.
Digital Law
Digital law refers to the legal requirements, legal decisions, and ethics
related to the digital environment. As digital citizens, Lasallians must be
aware of legal requirements, legal decisions, and ethics to ensure that
their use of digital technologies is always in compliance with the law.
Digital Communication
Digital communication refers to the exchange of information in the
digital world. Such communication may occur synchronously (e.g., chat,
video call) or asynchronously (e.g., post on social media, blog post). This
requires clear expectations for safe and secure communication in the
online environment.

-- 281 of 339 --

282
Digital Security
Digital Security refers to electronic precautions to protect students,
employees, and the university. This digital citizenship policy identifies
who and what must be secured and the necessary actions to address
security risks.
Digital Health and Wellness
Digital health and wellness refer to individuals’ physical and psychological
well-being while engaging in the digital environment. Physical health
is addressed by ensuring the ergonomics of the workplace to avoid
injuries brought about by the frequent use of technologies. Ensuring the
psychological well-being of the Lasallian community while in the digital
environment entails supporting their mental health needs to function
well and lead balanced lives.
IV. Policy Statement
As De La Salle University continuously introduces and improves access
to digital technology to enable and support its activities in teaching
and learning, research, and community engagement, including digital
platforms that allow enrollment, online payments, collaboration,
and communication, the University recognizes the need to likewise
continuously help the DLSU Community that have access to digital
platforms, to be responsible and ethical digital citizens.
The University thus commits to providing the structures and programs
to ensure that the digital environment it opens to the DLSU Community
is safe, protected, and continuously educated. Digital literacy campaigns,
digital citizenship curriculums, and formations express such structures
or programs.
The DLSU Digital Citizenship Policy Statement (this document) outlines
principles aligned with the core beliefs and values shared by the DLSU
Community, operating in the digital or virtual environment. These
principles will guide and align the creation, upkeep, review for relevance,
and currency of other policies, guidelines, and procedures of the
University.
The key principles revolve around safety and protection, respect, and
education of the members of the DLSU Community in accessing, using,
interacting, and transacting in the digital world.
Be Safe: Protect Yourself and Others → Protect myself and the Lasallian
Community in the digital environment.
Be Savvy: Educate Yourself and Others → Continuously educate

-- 282 of 339 --

283
ourselves and be critical and responsible in the use of technology.
Be Social: Respect Yourself and Others → “Digital” citizens create a safe
digital space where mutual respect exists.
Principle 1: The Digital Self is not distinct from Real-World Self
Focusing on the self
The University will keep its integrity and core values and beliefs espoused
by every Lasallian member, for both the real and digital worlds. The
DLSU University, with the DLSU Community, endeavors to continuously
understand and appreciate the implications of the digital self and the
digital footprint one leaves in the digital world.
A. Acknowledging this principle, the University commits to
promoting and protecting the exercise of all human rights online
(G7 Internet Safety Principles, 2021)
B. Ethical standards and values one exhibits in real-world
situations are to be expected from the digital self.
C. Further provisions on responsibilities, rights, and even
admonitions, offenses, and sanctions are articulated in the
different manuals, policies, and guidelines under which the DLSU
community falls.
D. A digital document is functionally equivalent to a physical
document.
E. A duplicate copy is considered an original document (2019
Amendments to the 1989 Revised Rules on Evidence)
Principle 2: Digital Citizenship is in All Digital Spaces
Focusing on the interaction with others
Recognizing geographical and time boundaries, it is asserted that the
concept of digital “citizenship” is not bounded by space and time.
This is in the same manner and assertion that values and beliefs are
not determined by such. Thus the University endeavors to provide
continuous education and formation to all of the DLSU Community to
ensure that the principles and values of Digital citizenship are practiced
at all times and in all places. It ensures that all policies and prevailing laws
uphold and foster human rights and respect for all persons.

-- 283 of 339 --

284
Principle 3: Online Media Literacy and University Responsibility to Online
Safety and Protection
Focusing on Enablement
The University should have the policies, systems, and processes in place
to respect human rights online, improve safety, and reduce illegal and
harmful content and activity in the digital environment it provides to the
DLSU Community. Likewise, the DLSU Community aims to continuously
educate oneself to have the digital competence, skills, knowledge, and
discernment to make informed and safe choices online and protect the
information entrusted to one’s care. The University provides the avenue
by which education and empowerment happen (G7 Internet Safety
Principles, 2021)
Principle 4: Promoting Accountability and Due Diligence
Recognizing the Roles and Responsibilities Within the Digital Space.
As digital citizens, members of the DLSU community are expected
to be responsible and accountable for all their actions in the use of
technology. It is imperative that we are aware of the serious rights and
responsibilities that come with operating in the digital space, and accept
these terms to make it a safer space for everyone (UAE Digital WellBeing
Council, 2021). Similarly, the University must practice due diligence
in implementing the policies and laws governing the responsible use
of digital tools and resources. The University safeguards the rights and
responsibilities of its members to ensure a safe digital environment for
all.
V. Related Policies:
The policy serves as the reference document and parent policy for
policies related to digital citizenship. These policies are included in the
following manuals and guidelines:
1. 	Student Handbook
2. 	Faculty Manual
3. 	Administration Manual
4. 	APSP Manual
5. 	CAP Manual
6. 	Social Media Guidelines
7. 	DLSU Policy on Intellectual Property
8. 	DLSU Institutional Identity

-- 284 of 339 --

285
APPENDIX L
UNIVERSITY ATTIRE POLICY
VALUES
De La Salle University endeavors to be a safe space for all its members
and guests. As stated in the Lasallian Guiding Principles, Lasallian
education is marked by a communal spirit that enables all sectors of the
school and all those who support its work to collaborate in educating
towards a world that is more humane, where no one is excluded from
the banquet of life. It looks upon all its members as co-responsible
for creating a culture and climate conducive to genuine learning
and character formation. It challenges learners to realize their full
potential by promoting critical and creative thinking, self-knowledge,
and self-mastery, encouraging synergy, collaboration, and dialogue in
an environment that is hospitable, and where learners translate their
knowledge into actual practice for the betterment of society. It defines
its campus as a safe space where its members’ and guests’ right to free
speech, self-expression, self-identity, comfort in talents, disabilities
or incapacities, are protected. It promotes respect, openness, and
accommodation amidst diversity, and therefore promotes the value
of difference and pluralism that celebrate various ways of being in the
world.
UNIVERSITY ATTIRE
The way individuals dress themselves is a way of expressing personality,
self-identity, advocacy, spirituality, or religion, among other things. The
University, therefore, will not impose a dress code that discriminates
on the basis of sex and gender, socio-economic status, mental health/
development, physical ailments and disabilities, genes, race, and religion.
It encourages its students to learn how to be independent and to make
good decisions, including in the way they clothe themselves.
The University acknowledges that everyone has the right to dress
comfortably, to be responsible for their own behavior, and to be able to
effectively focus on the learning process amidst possible distractions.
The minimum required University attire is aimed at keeping the learning
space safe during specific class activities, allowing students to be
comfortable and to express their gender identity, religious affiliation, and
advocacy, without fear of discipline or discrimination.

-- 285 of 339 --

286
BASIC PRINCIPLE
Students may dress according to their preferred gender expression
so long as genitals, buttocks, and nipples are covered with opaque
material.
Except in situations where activity-specific attire is required for safety
and comfort, students can wear any top and bottom that are not just
undergarments, and any footwear.
Students cannot wear clothing with:
• 	violent language or images.
• 	images and/or language depicting drugs or alcohol (or any illegal
item or activity) or the use of the same.
• 	hate speech, profanity, pornography, printed or implied.
• 	images and/or language using stereotypes based on any group
or class, that create a hostile or intimidating environment for
anyone.
These guidelines apply to both face-to-face and online classes and
activities.
Any student caught wearing clothing with such images or language will
be sent or called to the Student Discipline Formation Office (SDFO) to
discuss the possible violation, and if the act is found inexcusable, will
be given a warning. A student found wearing banned clothing after four
(4) warnings will be charged with a minor offense.
DRESS CODE
Faculty members teaching specific classes may require a dress
code as long as it is relevant to the activity in class or the nature of
the course. The dress code and the rationale for it are included in
the syllabus and discussed with the class at the beginning of the
term, making sure that the class-specific dress code does not pose
unreasonable inconvenience on the students. Non-compliance with
the class dress code will be given sanction within the class grading
system and will not be treated as a Student Handbook violation.
Invitations to activities or required activities held outside the regular
classrooms, which require a dress code, e.g., theater, conference rooms,
chapel, laboratories, sports building, etc., will indicate the reasonable
clothing requirement in the invitations or announcements. Without an

-- 286 of 339 --

287
indicated event dress code, students can wear anything to the event,
except clothing not allowed by the University. Students who are unable
to comply may be stopped at the gates/doors discreetly, and given an
option to remedy their attire by fetching their own additional clothing
available on campus or somewhere nearby, or by borrowing from friends.
They will not be forced to wear any clothing without their consent and
will be given a choice to comply with the event’s dress code and join the
activity, or miss it altogether.
If anyone’s learning process is adversely affected by anyone’s clothing—
for example, tall hats, hair ornaments, or big or fluffy tops—obstructing
somebody’s line of sight, one may discreetly and politely ask the person
to adjust or remove the obstructing but inessential piece of clothing
if possible, unless a simple transfer to another seat is an open option.
Faculty teaching a class may discreetly ask students to remove hats,
pull down hoodies from their heads, remove sunglasses, veils, etc., if it is
important to them that they see clearly their student’s faces, or during
an activity, such as taking quizzes/examinations.
VALUING DIALOGUE
The University promotes openness and critical thinking in all situations.
It encourages all the members of the Lasallian community to make open
communication the first course of action in case of conflicts. Students,
faculty, personnel, administrators, and policy enforcers are expected to
ask questions and engage in deep dialogue while maintaining mutual
respect and preserving everyone’s dignity in the process towards mutual
understanding.

-- 287 of 339 --

288
APPENDIX M
POLICIES ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
1. Introduction
As an Institution of higher learning, De La Salle University-Manila is
committed to provide an atmosphere that supports the research and
scholarly works of its faculty, students, and staff.
The University acknowledges the necessity to provide policies to promote
and encourage excellence, creativity and innovation in research and other
scholarly works by identifying and protecting the rights of the University, its
faculty, staff, and students.
These policies are intended to provide the basic framework for the
treatment by the University of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR). They are
stated in broad terms in order for the details of the policies to evolve from
their interpretation and application in individual cases. The policies are not
meant to be mechanically applied but should be interpreted in terms of
two major concerns of the university. First, the university, as a resource of
Church and State, is committed to the use of inventions and intellectual
creations for the common good. Second, the university is committed to
scholarship and individual academic freedom of its faculty, students, and
staff to write and publish.
2. Definition of Terms
Unless otherwise specified, the following terms shall have the meaning
provided in these policies:
2.1 	“Author” means the natural person who originates, gives
existence to or expresses an idea and transforms it into some
tangible form under copyright law.
2.2 	“Commissioned Work” or “Work for Hire” means a work where
the University specifically commissions or hires a University
employee or any third person to create a work for a fee and
which the University on one hand and the inventor, author or third
party on the other expressly agree in a written instrument that it
be considered as such. The University shall own the intellectual
property of the commissioned work, unless otherwise provided in
the contract.
2.3 	“Copyrightable Work” means any literary or artistic work,

-- 288 of 339 --

289
2.4 	Whether original or derivative, which has been expressed or done
in some tangible form as enumerated under Sections 172 and 173
of the Intellectual Property Code of the Philippines including any
amendments thereto.
2.5 	“IP Policies” means the Policies on Intellectual Property of De La Salle
University and its amendments.
2.6 	“Intellectual Property” means any property defined as such by the
Intellectual Property Code of the Philippines (RA 8293) such as, but
not limited to, patents, patentable inventions, utility models, industrial
designs, layout designs of integrated circuits, marks, copyright,
computer software, technical know-how, trade secrets, and plant
varieties.
2.7 	“Inventor” means a person who creates or discovers a new method,
form, device, process or composition of matter which is patentable
under the law.
2.8 	“Invention” means a novel creation, discovery, idea, or device that may
be patented under the law.
2.9 	“Patent” is the exclusive right of the owner against unlicensed use or
exploitation of the patented product or process or any improvement
thereof.
2.10 	“Regularly-assigned duties” means the work, duty, or responsibility
of the university employee as enumerated in the job description
or employee/faculty manual, or the regular duties assigned by a
superior as part of his/her regular workload. Works submitted to the
university as a requirement for continued employment or promotion
shall be considered as work done according to the regularly assigned
duties of the university employee. In cases of copyright, however,
the ownership of works submitted by a university employee as a
requirement for promotion, longevity pay, or research incentive
pay under the faculty manual shall not be considered as work done
according to the regularly-assigned duties of the university employee
and shall, therefore, be owned by the author. This is subject to the
provision on copyright under section 6.1 of these policies.
2.11 	“Students” shall have the same meaning as defined in the DLSU
Student Handbook and the DLSU Graduate Student Handbook.
2.12 	“Substantial Use of the facilities and/or resources of the University”
means either that:
a) 	University funds were used to specifically support

-- 289 of 339 --

290
the development of the intellectual property;
b) 	The work could not have been developed or
created without using the facilities or resources of the
University; or
There is use of resources of the University that are not
students such as, but not limited to, laboratories and
technical computer software. However, the use of office,
library, computers and servers of the university shall not
constitute substantial use of University facilities and
resources.
2.13 	“Trademark” or “Mark” means a distinctive word, design, symbol,
logo or any combination of word and design that identifies and
distinguishes the goods or services of one from that of another.
2.14 	“University” refers to De La Salle University.
2.15 	“University employees” refer to teaching and/or research faculty,
academic service faculty, administrative service personnel and
co-academic personnel whether part-time, full-time, contractual, or
casual employees of De La Salle University. It shall also refer to visiting
professors or other persons who have official teaching, research or
other academic engagement with the University.
2.16 	“Work/s” shall mean any kind of intellectual property.
3. Coverage of these Policies
3.1 	These policies apply to university employees, students and such
other persons who participate in research and other scholarly projects
at the University. The policies cover all kinds of intellectual properties
under the Intellectual Property Code of the Philippines (RA 8293) and
related laws.
4. Prior Disclosure Requirement
4.1 	All persons subject to these policies are required to promptly disclose
all inventions and other scholarly works in which the University has
or may have an ownership interest under Sections 5.2 and 6.2 of
these policies, or for which disclosure is required by contract or
law. Disclosure shall be made in writing by submitting a disclosure
form to the Vice Presidentfor Research and Innovation (VPRI) and
copy furnished the Director of the Intellectual Property Office of the
University.

-- 290 of 339 --

291
4.2 	All contracted works by university employees from third parties must
have the express written approval of the University. Where the work
was developed through an agreement between the University and a
third party, the ownership of the intellectual property shall be subject
to the terms of the contract.
5. Ownership of Patent
5.1 	Owned by Inventor
Rights to patents shall belong to the inventor except in the instances stated in
section 5.2 of these policies. Notwithstanding ownership of the inventor of his
works, the university or any member of the academic community is allowed,
without infringing any intellectual property right, free access to and use of their
works to pursue or develop them for non-commercial and academic purposes.
5.2 	Owned by the University
Rights to Patent shall belong to the University if any one of the following
circumstances exists:
a.) The invention was developed as part of the regularly-
assigned duties of the inventor;
b.) The invention was developed using funds provided or
administered by or through the University;
c.) The invention was developed making substantial use of
the facilities or resources of the University;
d.) Commissioned work by the University or “Work for Hire”;
e.) The ownership of the invention was assigned by the
inventor to the university; and
f.) In case of students,the invention or work was developed
when he/she received financial support from the University
in the form of tuition waiver, scholarship, stipend or
allowance regardless of the amount.
g.) Works whose inventors cannot be determined.
5.3 	Externally Funded or Sponsored
If the patentable invention arose or was related to an undertaking covered
by distinct agreement of the inventor and a third party using funds not
administered by or through the University or where the University has no claim

-- 291 of 339 --

292
of ownership under Section 5.2, the terms of the agreement will prevail over
these policies. In the absence of any contrary provision in the agreement, these
policies shall apply to externally funded or sponsored research.
5.4 	Student Works
In the case of student works produced and submitted as class assignments or
as course requirements, these works are owned by the students, unless it falls
under the instances stated in section 5.2, except paragraph (a). The University
by University employees in the course of their mentoring assignment as part of
their regularly-assigned duties. In cases not falling under section 5.2, the faculty
member/s and the student/s concerned may enter into an agreement prior to
the mentoring engagement specifying, among others, the ownership of the
intellectual property and the sharing of royalties. In case there is no agreement,
the ownership of the patent shall belong to the student.
Notwithstanding ownership by students of their works, the university or
any member of the academic community is allowed, without infringing any
intellectual property right, free access to and use of the student works to pursue
or develop them for non-commercial and academic purposes.
5.5 	Reversion of Ownership
In the event that the University decides not to file a patent application or claim
ownership of the patent under paragraph 5.2 within one hundred (100) calendar
days from receipt of the patent disclosure form of the invention, ownership of
the invention or the work shall automatically revert to the inventor subject to the
agreement, if any, entered into by the University with a funding or sponsoring
agency prior to the research.
5.6 	Assignment of Royalty
In cases where the patent rights belong to the University under section 5.2,
it may, at its own discretion, assign royalty shares to the inventor. The royalty
sharing shall be based on the implementing rules and regulations of these IP
Policies to be hereinafter adopted, unless there is an agreement to the contrary.
5.7 	Assignment of Patent
5.7.1 	In cases covered by section 5.2, the inventor shall execute a
deed of assignment of patent together with the disclosure
form required under paragraph 2.1 of these policies in favor
of the University.
5.7.2 	In cases where the inventor assigns the patent rights to the
University, the University shall take care of the filing of the
patent and the payment of the filing and maintenance fees.

-- 292 of 339 --

293
5.8 	Outside Consultants and Independent Contractors
5.8.1 	The University shall own the patent of any work produced
by non-university employees who are contracted to
perform certain work for the university as consultants or
independent contractors, unless specified otherwise in a
written agreement between the parties.
5.8.2 	The University shall own the patent of any work produced
by university employees under the instances mentioned in
section 5.2 of these policies who are acting as consultants or
independent contractors of third parties, unless there is an
agreement to the contrary between the University and the
third party.
6. Ownership of Copyright
6.1 	Owned by Author
Rights to copyright shall belong to the author for as long as the work was not
funded or in any manner financially supported by the University, whether or
not it is part of the regular duties of the author, subject to exceptions stated in
section 6.2 of these policies.
In case of multiple authors, ownership shall be determined by stipulation of
the parties. In case there is no stipulation, the VPRI shall assist the parties in
determining the authors’ respective ownership in the work. In case the authors
cannot agree, they shall have equal shares in the ownership of the intellectual
property.
Notwithstanding ownership of the author of his works, the university or any
member of the academic community is allowed, without infringing any
intellectual property right, free access to and use of their works to pursue or
develop them for non-commercial and academic purposes.
6.2 	Owned by the University
Rights to Copyright shall belong to the University if any one of the following
circumstances exists:
( a) the work was done using funds provided or administered
by or through the University;
(b) the work was done making substantial use of the
facilities or resources of the University;
( c) commissioned work by the University or “Work for Hire”;

-- 293 of 339 --

294
( d) teaching or training materials or modules created as part
of the regularly-assigned duties of the university employee;
( e ) the ownership of the copyright was assigned by the
author to the university;
( f ) In case of students, the work was developed or created
when he/she received financial support from the University
in the form of tuition waiver, scholarship, stipend or
allowance regardless of the amount; and
(g) Works whose authorship cannot be determined.
6.3 	Externally Funded or Sponsored Work
If the work arose or was related to an undertaking covered by distinct
agreement of the author and a third party using funds not administered by or
through the University or where the University has no claim of ownership under
Section 6.2, the terms of the agreement will prevail over these policies. In the
absence of any contrary provision in the agreement, these policies shall apply to
externally funded or sponsored research.
6.4 	Student Works
In the case of student works produced and submitted as class assignments
or as course requirements, these works are owned by the students, unless
it falls under the instances stated in section 6.2. The University may claim
copyright over works contributed by University employees in the course of their
mentoring assignment as part of their regularly-assigned duties. In cases not
falling under section 6.2, the faculty member/s and the student/s concerned
may enter into an agreement prior to the mentoring engagement specifying,
among others, the ownership of the intellectual property, and the sharing of
royalties. In case there is no agreement, the ownership of the patent shall belong
to the student.
Notwithstanding ownership by students of their works, the university or
any member of the academic community is allowed, without infringing any
intellectual property right, free access to and use of the student works to pursue
or develop them for non-commercial and academic purposes.
6.5 	Reversion of Ownership
In the event that the University decides not to claim ownership over the work
under paragraph 6.2 within one hundred (100) calendar days from receipt of
the copyright disclosure form of the work, ownership of the copyright shall
automatically revert to the author subject to the agreement, if any, entered into
by the University with a funding or sponsoring agency prior to the research.

-- 294 of 339 --

295
6.6 	Assignment of Royalty
In cases where the copyright belongs to the University under section 6.2, it may,
at its own discretion, assign royalty shares to the inventor. The royalty sharing
shall be based on the implementing rules and regulations of these IP Policies to
be hereinafter adopted, unless there is an agreement to the contrary.
6.7 	Assignment of Copyright
6.7.1 	In cases covered by section 6.2, the author shall execute
a deed of assignment of copyright together with the
disclosure form required under paragraph 4.1 of these
policies in favor of the University.
6.7.2 	The University shall be responsible for submitting copies of
the work to the National Library and Supreme Court Library
or to the appropriate government agency.
6.8 	Outside Consultants and Independent Contractors
6.8.1 	The University shall own the copyright of any work
produced by non-university employees who are contracted
to perform work for the university as consultants or
independent contractors, unless specified otherwise in a
written agreement between the parties.
6.8.2 	The University shall own the copyright of any work produced
by university employees under the instances mentioned in
section 6.2 of these policies who are acting as consultants or
independent contractors of third parties, unless there is an
agreement to the contrary between the University and the
third party.
7. Ownership of Trademark
The University exclusively owns the trade marks, service marks, emblems, logos,
symbols and other marks that it uses and distributes in relation to its goods or
services. The rules on the use, exploitation and distribution of these marks, logos
and symbols are contained in specific University policy and guidelines on the
use of trademarks now existing or to be adopted in the future. The Office for
Strategic Communications (STRATCOM) shall be responsible for the registration
and management of all marks of the University. It also has the sole authority to
engage in or approve the development, design and sale of merchandise with
the registered marks of the University.

-- 295 of 339 --

296
8. University Information
All persons covered by these policies are not allowed to divulge any information
arising from research, patentable device or technology, trade secrets or other
related information which are necessary for the protection of the intellectual
property rights of the University. In case of doubt as to the nature of the
university information, the party concerned should secure a clearance from the
VCR before divulging any information.
9. Functions of the DLSU Intellectual Property Office (DIPO)
The DLSU Intellectual Property Office (DIPO), which shall also act as the
Technology Licensing Office (TLO) of the University, is an office under the Vice
President of Research & Innovation which was established to implement the
IP Policies of the University. The DIPO is headed by a Director and shall have the
following functions:
(a) Oversees all activities directly related to the management,
development and protection of the University’s intellectual property;
(b) Assists in the drafting of contracts, agreements, affidavits, patent
applications and other documents which are necessary to protect the
intellectual property rights of the University;
(c) Recommends appropriate actions for enforcement of intellectual
property rights and coordinates with the University Legal Counsel for
the filing of appropriate actions and other measures to protect the
intellectual property rights of the University;
(d) Answers queries from faculty, students and staff in matters
pertaining to the protection of intellectual property;
(e) As a TLO, assists in the evaluation of the commercial potential of
works and assists in technology commercialization activities referred
to it by the University;
(f) As a TLO, assists in the negotiation of licensing agreements, joint
ventures, spin-offs and other similar contracts referred to it by the
University;
(g) Reviews contracts and other agreements concerning intellectual
property matters referred to it by University;
(h) Initiates the creation and revision of University policies, strategies,
guidelines and procedures concerning intellectual property;
(i) Coordinates activities with the other units in the University to
promote awareness and compliance to intellectual property laws and
policies;

-- 296 of 339 --

297
(j) Prepares and executes a system for documenting and tracking
University-owned intellectual property;
(k) Represents the University in Intellectual Property organizations,
associations and societies;
(l) Proposes and defends budget for activities related to its
functions;
(m) Approves and monitors expenses for activities related to its
functions.
Please refer to the complete text of the IP policies here:
https://www.dlsu.edu.ph/research/offices/dipo/ip-policies/
10. Intellectual Property Offenses
The University recognizes the exclusive rights of inventors, authors and artists
over their intellectual property creations. For this reason, it shall protect the
rights of the owners of intellectual property over all forms of infringement such
as:
(a) Photocopying of printed materials or copying of computer
software without the permission of the author/s or creator/s, subject
to the rules on fair use of copyrighted work and the other exceptions
thereto as stated in the Intellectual Property Code of the Philippines
(RA 8293);
(b) Use, distribution, transfer, rental, sale or production of counterfeit,
unlicensed or pirated intellectual property contained in optical media
as defined under the Optical Media Act of 2003 (RA 9239);
(c) Violation of the confidentiality rule under Section 8 of these
policies;
(d) Deliberate failure to comply with the prior disclosure
requirement under Section 4 of these policies;
(e) Unauthorized use, distribution, transfer, rental, sale or production
of university-owned intellectual property;
(f) Plagiarism and other forms of academic dishonesty;
(g) All other acts analogous to the foregoing.

-- 297 of 339 --

298
11. Establishment of the University Committee on Intellectual Property (UCIP)
The University Committee on Intellectual Property (UCIP) shall be constituted for
the following purposes:
a) To administer and interpret these IP policies.
b) To determine the rights of parties to the intellectual property for the
purpose of settling disputes limited to the ownership of intellectual
property and sharing of royalties.
c) To adjudicate disputes concerning implementation and interpretation
of these IP policies.
d) To recommend changes to these IP policies.
The UCIP shall be headed by the Associate Vice-Chancellor for Research and
Learning and will be composed of the Director of the Intellectual Property
Office, the University Legal Counsel and two (2) retired University fellows as
members. The UCIP shall invite the following sectoral representatives if the
issue in dispute involves their particular sector: (1) Student Representative
(for issues concerning students); (2) Faculty Association Representative (for
issues concerning teaching and/or research faculty members); and (3) Staff
Representative (for issues concerning academic service faculty/personnel and
co-academic personnel).
12. Penalties
Any person found to have violated any of the provisions of these policies shall
be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of the faculty, student, staff,
administrative or applicable employment manual/handbook. All items in
Section 10 shall be considered as major offenses.
13. Waiver of IP Policy
The University President, in his own initiative or through the recommendation
of the University Committee on Intellectual Property (UCIP), shall have the
sole discretion to waive or vary any or all of the provisions of these policies on
a case-to-case basis if a strict application of these policies shall not result in
fairness and equity in a particular case. A waiver or variance of the intellectual
property policies made in one case shall not serve as a precedent to any future
or subsequent case.

-- 298 of 339 --

299
14. Amendment or Revision
Any university employee or student may propose changes to these IP Policies
by writing a letter addressed the AVCREL specifying the proposed changes and
the reasons for the proposed changes. The UCIP shall make an annual review of
these IP Policies in one of its meetings.
15. Repealing Clause
These IP Policies supersede the previous IP Policies and its subsequent revision
dated June 25, 2008 and February 11, 2009 respectively. All other University
policies inconsistent with these policies are repealed accordingly.
16. Effectivity Clause
These Revised IP Policies shall take effect immediately upon its approval on July
7, 2010.

-- 299 of 339 --

300
APPENDIX N
DLSU POLICY AND GUIDELINES ON THE USE OF
TRADEMARKS
Trademark history
De La Salle University, thru the Strategic Communications, registered the
following trademarks:
’De La Salle University’ and logo
’The future begins here’
‘Animo La Salle’
’Star Scholars’ and design
‘Hip to be here’
‘Keep learning’
DLSU likewise applied for the trademark registration of the following:
’DLSU-M’
Slanted star device
Green archer device
’La Salle Green Archers’
’Animo La Salle’
‘We mean business’
‘Where great minds meet’
‘Creating the next great idea.’
For the following goods and services (including but not limited to): Institutional
collateral such as calling cards, marketing kits, brochures, posters, stationeries,
letterheads, and envelopes; Souvenir items or merchandise which promote
the University such as jackets, t-shirts, towels, bags, shorts, pants, mugs, pins,
stickers; Institutional advertisements, namely posters, billboards, print ads,
television ads, special supplements, electronic ads; and identification tokens
which signify affiliation with DLSU such as institutional identification cards,
membership cards in University-recognized organizations.

-- 300 of 339 --

301
The trademarks are the exclusive property of De La Salle University. Policies
and procedures have been developed for the use or application for use of the
trademarks.
The Office of Strategic Communications (STRATCOM) has been given the
sole authority to engage in or approve the development, design, and sale of
merchandise with the registered or applied trademarks mentioned above. The
office evaluates and approves all applications for the use of the trademarks.
General information
A “mark” means any visible sign capable of distinguishing the goods (trademark)
or services (service mark) of an enterprise and shall include a stamped or
marked container of goods. (Sec. 38, R.A. No. 166a)
A “collective mark” means any visible sign designated as such in the application
for registration and capable of distinguishing the origin or any other common
characteristic, including the quality of goods or services of different enterprises
which use the sign under the control of the registered owner of the collective
mark. (Sec. 40, R.A. No. 166a)
General policies
De La Salle University is a non-stock, non-profit educational corporation
engaged in teaching and research. Given its nature as an educational institution,
De La Salle University runs a limited, well-defined program for the use of the
trademarks and shall screen applicants in accordance with the following
general policies:
To protect the integrity of the name of the University and enhance its image
through the use of its name and logo; and
To prohibit the use and association of its name, symbols and logos to persons,
groups or activities whose values are not consistent with those of the University.
Prior approval by the Office for Strategic Communications
An approval to use any of the registered or applied trademarks should first
be requested and obtained from the STRATCOM if the name or logo will be
used on products or merchandise that will be sold or distributed to the public.
The approval to use will only give a non-exclusive right to use the registered or
applied trademark on products with quality and design approved by the Office
for Strategic Communications from the submitted prototypes.

-- 301 of 339 --

302
Students who wish to produce merchandise as part of their fundraising activity
for a specific event must first seek the approval of the Office for Strategic
Communications. Time duration of commercial production and selling of the
merchandise will be on a per approval basis.
The STRATCOM will evaluate the expressed written request or application for
the use of any of the following trademarks and determine the specific terms
and conditions of the use of any of the trademarks by the applicant.
All merchandise shall be prototyped and approved by the STRATCOM
before production and delivery. All prototypes must be based on the original
specifications submitted for quotation.
Approval to use any of the registered trademarks may only be executed as
promotional or premium items for confined commercial use and on a limited
duration. Promotional use must follow the terms and conditions of De La Salle
University on sponsorship and solicitation.
Unapproved use of any of the following trademarks will be penalized and
sanctioned as a minor offense, as stated in the De La Salle University Student
Handbook. Violators will be ordered to immediately cease the production and
selling of all merchandise bearing the University’s Trademarks.
No other retailer or supplier, unless otherwise approved by the STRATCOM, is
allowed to sell their merchandise for commercial purposes.
No assumption of liability or warranty
In granting the approval of an application to use any of the following registered
or applied trademarks, the University does not assume any representation
or warranty on the goods or merchandise of the applicant. As a condition of
the approval to be granted, the applicant answers for all representations and
warranties on their products and their condition. The applicant shall hold De La
Salle University, its officers and employees free and harmless from any product
liability, tortuous action, or for any breach of warranty or representation of the
products or merchandise where the name or logo of the University appears and
will indemnify De La Salle University, its officers and employees for any such
liability or damage if sought or imposed.
Non-licensable uses
The following uses of the name or logo of the University will not be allowed:
Official Stationery including but not limited to University letterhead, business
cards and institutional cards; and Official documents including but not limited
to certificates of recognition bearing the name and seal of De La Salle University.

-- 302 of 339 --

303
Prohibited uses
The use of the name or logo of the University cannot be attached to or affixed
on the following items:
• 	Alcoholic beverages including but not limited to distilled alcohol
liquors, wines, and malt liquors
• 	Cigars, cigarettes and any kind or form of tobacco products
• 	Dangerous or hazardous products including but not limited to
firearms, explosives, dangerous weapons, and fuels
• 	Obscene or disparaging products including but not limited to nude
photographs, caricature, poster art, or designs that would tend to
lower the reputation or degrade the goodwill of the University as
represented by the trademarks
• 	Sexually suggestive products including but not limited to
inappropriate slogans imprinted on clothing and the configuration
of certain novelty items
• 	Health or health-related products
• 	All staple foods, meats, and any natural agricultural or fishery
products
• 	Products that insinuate violence
• 	All types of business names or logos
• 	Partisan political paraphernalia or political activities, political
parties or candidates to political office
• 	Services except when approved by STRATCOM in accordance
with special requirements applicable to services.

-- 303 of 339 --

304
APPENDIX O
GUIDELINES FOR THE CONDUCT OF THE LASALLIANS’
FIGHT AGAINST DRUGS (LFAD) DRUG TESTING
PROGRAM (DTP)
Rationale
1. Educational institutions are mandated by the government through Republic
Act (RA) No. 9165, otherwise known as the “Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs
Act of 2002”, to develop and implement policies and measures to prevent and
combat the use of dangerous drugs;
2. The University supports the prevention and reduction efforts of the
government to fight illegal drug use and abuse and its ill effects to humans and
society;
3. Incidents or reports of illicit drugs or substances use and abuse among
the youth are prevalent and continue to rise. The University must make
precautionary measures or proactive approaches to address the concerns
related to dangerous drugs; and
4. The government, under Section 6 Letter H of DDB Board Regulation
No. 3 Series of 2009 under “Enforcement and Compliance”, encourages
institutionalization of drug testing activities in schools/institutions concerned
over-and-above the random drug testing program conducted by the
government.
Purposes of the LFAD Drug Testing
1. To identify drug use among the students and help them by providing
appropriate intervention/s;
2. To prevent or discourage experimentation and use of illegal substances
among the students; and
3. To assess the effectivity and strengthen the drug prevention initiatives and
activities of the University.
Definition of Terms
For purposes of this guideline, the definition of terms used in the Dangerous
Drugs Board Regulations No. 6 series of 2003 and No. 3 series of 2009, as
implemented by CHED Memorandum Orders (CMOs) No. 19 series of 2003 and
No. 25 series of 2009, shall be adopted.

-- 304 of 339 --

305
Drug Testing Center and Site
The drug screening of students will be conducted by a DOH-accredited Testing
Center, to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of the test results. The
specimen collection shall be done in DLSU campus and its satellite campuses.
Expenses
The Office of Student Affairs (OSA) shall designate the drug testing laboratory
that shall be utilized for the purposes of the program. Payment of testing fee
shall be initially borne by the University.
LFAD DTP Procedure
All students will undergo drug testing as part of the LFAD-DTP. The conduct
of the Drug testing will be part of the Annual Physical Exam. For its first year of
implementation, ID 115 students will undergo random drug testing scheduled
anytime within the AY 2015-2016. Starting AY 2016-2017, all students will
undergo drug testing scheduled anytime within the current academic year.
Incoming frosh will be required to submit drug test results part of their pre-
enrollment medical examination.
For the random selection of students, the following procedure which is
patterned after the DDB Board Regulations No. 6 series of 2003 and No. 3 series
of 2009 with some modification will be followed:
1. 	Notification
a. All incoming frosh and their parents shall be notified
of the process and manner by which the random drug
screening shall be conducted through the Drug Testing
Waiver Form (Please see Annex A). Failure to return the
acknowledgement receipt of the notice shall not be a bar to
the conduct of the drug testing. The University, through the
SDFO, shall ensure to keep all the acknowledgement receipt
of all the notices as proof of service.
b. A general announcement on LFAD Drug Testing Program
will be published in the DLSU Student Handbook and primers
and released to the Lasallian community via DLSU official
website and social networking sites.
Randomly selected students will be informed by the SDFO of their inclusion in
the drug testing through a notice or letter (Please see Annex B) on the scheduled
date of drug testing. Likewise, concerned faculty will be notified through email
and formal letter (Please see Annex C).

-- 305 of 339 --

306
2. 	LFAD DTP Selection Board, Target Samples and Process (only
for students in their first year)
a. Composition and specific duties and responsibilities of
the LFAD RDT Selection Board are as follows:
Dean of Student Affairs – acts as Drug Testing
Coordinator (DTC) and Chairperson of the
Selection Board; convenes and presides the
LFAD DTP Selection Board meetings; and handles
the conference of the parents or guardians and
students who may be found positive of the use of
dangerous drugs
Student Discipline Formation Office (SDFO)
Director/ Representative – assists the DTC in his/
her duties and responsibilities; handles the logistic
requirements of the RDT; supervises the conduct
of the RDT; distributes notices of RDT to selected
students; and fetches the students from their
classes during the scheduled RDT
Office of Counseling and Career Services (OCCS)
Director/ Representative – handles the counseling-
related concerns of students of the RDT
University Registrar/OUR Representative – provides
the official student population for a given period
and class schedules of randomly selected
students
Health Services Office (HSO) Director/
Representative – handles all the health services-
related concerns of the RDT
Information and Technology Services (ITS)
Director/ Representative – handles the random
selection of students and provides the computer
facilities to be used for the RDT
Association of Faculty and Educators of DLSU
(AFED) President/Representative - assists the
LFAD DTP Selection Board in its information
dissemination activities for all faculty
University Student Government (USG) President/
Representative - assists the LFAD DTP Selection

-- 306 of 339 --

307
Board in its information dissemination activities for
all students
Parents of University Students Office (PUSO)
President/ Representative – assists the LFAD DTP
Selection Board in its information dissemination
activities for all parents
b. The Selection Board shall ensure the integrity and
confidentiality of the random selection process.
c. The Selection Board shall meet to prepare and plan the
conduct of the LFAD RDT and to determine the schedules
and sample target (e.g. .5% or 1 % of the total student
population per term) of the random drug testing at the
beginning of the academic year.
d. The Selection Board shall be convened by the DTC
to conduct an orientation on their specific roles and
responsibilities for the LFAD RDT and determine the actual
names of students who will undergo the drug testing within
seven (7) working days prior to the scheduled random drug
testing.
e. The selection shall be randomly made by the ITS through
lottery, which may be computerized or in any other manner
that shall be agreed upon by the Selection Board.
f. The random drug testing for students will be done
anytime within the academic year.
3. 	Collection of Urine Specimens
The Health Care Center shall follow the DOH-prescribed
guidelines in the collection of urine specimens. Universal
precautions shall be observed at all times. DOH Prescribed
Guidelines shall be posted in strategic places/visible areas of
the University.
a. The selected students shall be requested to accomplish
a drug testing form (Please see Annex D). They must declare
the prescription medicines, vitamins, and food supplements
that they had ingested within the past five (5) days.
b. Students who are prepared to give urine specimens shall
approach the analyst table and select a specimen bottle.
c. The student will be accompanied by a specimen
collector of the same gender to the collection site to
safeguard the integrity of the urine sample.

-- 307 of 339 --

308
d. The student will be asked to empty his/her pockets,
remove outer garments if any (such as blazer, jacket, vest,
etc.) and to thoroughly wash and dry hands. A body search
may be done when necessary.
e. After checking of urine sample and sealing the specimen
bottle by the specimen collector, the student affixes his/her
signature, date and time of collection to the “sealing tape”.
f. The specimen collector and the student affix final
signatures in the drug testing form attesting to the validity of
the procedures done.
4. 	Treatment of Drug Test Results
a. The results of the test shall be strictly confidential. The
University shall not publish nor post results whether positive
or negative.
b. Any person who violates the rules of confidentiality
of the results and selection shall be liable under Section
72 of RA 9165 and such other appropriate laws, including
administrative sanctions as per the DLSU Student Handbook
and Operations Manual.
c. The students with negative results shall be provided with
an individual copy of their drug screening results.
d. In case the test results are positive at the screening level,
the following shall be observed:
i. The same specimen shall immediately be
submitted for confirmatory test observing all strict
chain of custody procedures and confidentiality of
records; and
ii. The DTC shall inform in writing both the students
and their parents or legal guardians that a
confirmatory test shall be conducted.
iii. The results of the confirmatory test shall be
transmitted by the laboratory in a sealed envelope
and forwarded directly to the DTC.
e. If a student is “confirmed” negative from dangerous
drug use, the DTC shall individually inform each student and
parent concerned regarding the results.

-- 308 of 339 --

309
f. If a student is “confirmed” positive or using a dangerous
drug, the following shall be observed:
i. The results of the confirmatory test shall be
transmitted by the laboratory in a sealed envelope
and forwarded directly to the DTC;
ii. The DTC shall then inform in writing both the
student and his/her parent/s or legal guardian of
the results and how the information is regarded
with utmost secrecy and confidentiality.
iii. The DTC shall prepare and invite the student
and his/her parent/s or guardian for a conference
to discuss issues of drug use and appropriate
intervention/s or treatment plan.
iv. The DTC may refer the student and his/her
parent to a DOH-accredited facility or physician to
determine the student’s dependency level.
v. Positive confirmatory drug test result shall not
be a ground for any disciplinary action against the
student and should not be reflected in any of his/
her academic records. Under no circumstances
shall the results be used to incriminate the student
for further legal action which may result to
administrative/civil/criminal liabilities.
g. The student shall then undergo the prescribed
intervention program under the supervision of the DOH-
accredited facility or physician, or private practitioner,
or school based program in consultation with parents or
guardian. Such process of observation and counseling
shall be done in coordination with the Drug Counselor of
the University/ Office of Counseling and Career Services
(OCCS). The student may be asked to file for a Leave of
Absence if necessary.
h. If another drug testing is conducted for another period
and the student is found positive the second time or shows
no sign of improvement or recovery, the University may
place the student under a one (1) term observation and
counseling period with OCCS or require the student to file
a leave of absence (LOA) in consultation with the parent/s
or guardian or proceed in accordance with Section 61 of RA
9165.

-- 309 of 339 --

310
i. If the parents or guardian refuse to act, the University
shall process in accordance to Sec. 61, entitled, Compulsory
Confinement of a Drug Dependent Who Refuses to Apply
Under the Voluntary Submission Program, of RA 9165
without prejudice to the provision of Section 73, entitled,
Liability of a Parent, Spouse or Guardian Who Refuses to
Cooperate with the Board or any Concerned Agency of RA
9165.
j. The DTC shall submit reports on drug testing activity
initiated by the University to the Commission on Higher
Education (CHED) for proper accreditation of the
Department of Health (DOH).
5. 	Enforcement of Compliance
a. The SDFO is mandated to monitor the compliance of the
students to the LFAD RDT.
b. Students who refuse to undergo drug testing shall be
dealt with in accordance with the rules and regulations of
the University; provided that at no time refusal to undergo
testing shall not give rise to a presumption of drug use
or dependency; provided further that the school may
implement interventions on such refusal other than the
offense of drug use or dependency.
DANGEROUS DRUGS BOARD
BOARD REGULATION NO. 6 Series of 2003
SUBJECT: General Guidelines for the Conduct of Random Drug Testing for
Secondary and Tertiary Students Pursuant to Section 36 (c), Article III of
Republic Act No. 9165, the following guidelines are hereby promulgated.
The guidelines shall be applicable to the random drug testing of students
in public and private secondary, tertiary /higher education institutions and
post-secondary technical vocational schools. These guidelines outline the
purposes of the random drug-testing program, as well as procedures and
necessary consequences of a positive drug test result after confirmation.
All procedures undertaken shall take into account the ideals of fairness and
rehabilitation and not isolation of the drug dependent. The school must not
violate the constitutional rights to due process, equal protection and self-
incrimination.

-- 310 of 339 --

311
GUIDING PRINCIPLES IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF RANDOM DRUG TESTING IN
SCHOOLS AND MANAGEMENT OF DRUG TEST RESULTS
1. 	Government recognizes the primary responsibility of the family,
particularly the parents, for the education and awareness of its members
of the ill effects of dangerous drugs.
2. 	Parental involvement shall be maximized in the implementation of drug
education, random drug testing, treatment, and rehabilitation of drug users
and dependents.
3. 	The school, with the assistance of Local Government Units (LGUs) and
other agencies where the school is located, has the obligation to employ
every reasonable means to provide a healthy and drug free environment to
its populace.
4. 	Cognizant of the right of the students to continue and complete their
studies, the government and the schools shall give emphasis to the
implementation of measures aimed at guidance and counseling together
with the treatment and rehabilitation of any student found to have used or
to be dependent on dangerous drugs.
5. 	Academic freedom of institutions of higher learning shall be respected
in the implementation of random drug testing and all other pertinent
provisions of RA 9165.
6. 	The implementation of drug abuse prevention and education programs
in schools shall be intensified as an integral part of the overall demand
reduction efforts of the government.
7. 	The random drug testing shall be implemented as a collaborative
undertaking of the government, the schools, the students and their
parents. The whole process shall not in any manner be utilized to harass
the students.
8. 	Random drug testing shall be implemented primarily for prevention and
rehabilitation.
9. 	The drug testing program shall guarantee and respect the personal privacy
and dignity of the student.
10. The drug test results shall be treated with utmost confidentiality.
11. 	The test results shall not be used in any criminal proceedings.
PURPOSES OF RANDOM DRUG TESTING
1. 	To determine the prevalence of drug users among the students

-- 311 of 339 --

312
2. 	To assess the effectivity of school-based and community-based
prevention programs
3. 	To deter the use of illegal drugs
4. 	To facilitate the rehabilitation of drug users and dependents
5. 	To strengthen the collaboration efforts of identified agencies against the
use of illegal drugs and in the rehabilitation of drug users and dependents
DEFINITION OF TERMS
“Drug Counselor” shall mean a person trained in the techniques of guidance
counseling particularly dealing with cases of drug dependency. The Drug
Testing Coordinator shall designate one such person.
“Drug Testing Coordinator” shall be the point person in the school tasked with
handling random drug testing which shall be the principal of a secondary
school, the administrator of a technical vocational education and training
institution or the administrator appointed by the president/ chief executive
officer in tertiary institutions.
“Parents” shall, for purposes of these guidelines, include court appointed
guardians.
“Random selection” refers to the unbiased process of selecting students which
are to undergo drug testing.
“Rehabilitation” is the dynamic process, including aftercare and follow up
treatment, directed towards the physical, emotional/psychological, vocational,
social, and spiritual change/enhancement of a drug dependent to enable
him to live without dangerous drugs, enjoy the fullest life compatible with
his capabilities and potentials and render him to become a law-abiding and
productive member of the community.
“Schools” shall mean an institution that has as its primary purpose the
education of students including secondary, tertiary and technical vocational
education and training institutions.
6. 	“Selection Board” shall be the board constituted at the level of the
school composed of the Drug Testing Coordinator as chairperson, one
representative each from the students, faculty and parents as members.
The authorized governing body duly recognized by their respective
constituents shall choose the representatives from these stakeholders
based on a set of selection criteria formulated for this purpose. In the
absence of a parents’ association, the School Head may appoint any
parent who shall be a member of the Selection Board.

-- 312 of 339 --

313
“Supervising Agency” shall refer to the government agency that exercises
supervision over the school such as the Department of Education (DepEd),
Commission on Higher Education (CHED), or the Technical Education and Skills
Development Authority (TESDA).
PROCEDURES IN THE CONDUCT OF RANDOM DRUG TESTING
1. 	Notification
The Supervising Agency through an appropriate order
that includes these guidelines on random drug testing,
shall inform all schools under its supervision about the
government’ actions against illegal drugs.
The schools’ administration shall be required to explain
these provisions and their procedures to the school
community and when applicable, include these in the
schools’ handbook or listing of procedures.
(The Supervising Agencies’ Memorandum Circulars
should include a list of DOH-accredited Testing Centers/
Laboratories.)
All students and their parents shall be notified in writing
on the process and manner by which the random drug
testing shall be conducted. Such notification may be sent
at any time during the school term. Failure to return the
acknowledgment receipt shall not be a bar to the conduct
of the drug testing.
2. 	Samples
a. The Supervising Agency shall inform randomly selected
schools on their inclusion in the random drug testing
program.
b. The whole student population of the school selected
shall be included in the random sampling.
c. The number of samples should yield a statistical 95%
confidence level for the whole student population.
3. 	Selection of Samples
a. The Drug Testing Coordinator shall convene the Selection
Board within five days from the receipt of notice from the
Supervising Agency stating that the school is included in the
program.

-- 313 of 339 --

314
b. On the day of the testing, the Selection Board shall
conduct the random selection of those to be tested.
c. The Selection Board shall ensure the confidentiality and
integrity of the random selection process.
d. The selection process shall be random through a lottery
which may be computerized, or in any other manner that
shall be agreed upon by the Board.
e. The random selection of students and the drug testing
shall be done on the same day.
f. Prior to testing, the selected students shall be asked
to reveal the prescription medicines, vitamins, food
supplements that they had ingested within the past five (5)
days. The Drug Testing Coordinator shall keep the listing and
utilize this in the evaluation of the confirmatory drug test.
g. The laboratory shall follow the DOH prescribed guidelines
in the collection of urine specimens. Universal precautions
shall be observed at all times. DOH Prescribed Guidelines
shall be posted in strategic places/visible areas of the school.
h. The monitor assigned to ensure the integrity of the
collection process should be of the same sex as the student.
i. The drug testing shall be done in the school and
conducted by a duly accredited drug-testing laboratory.
The school, through its respective health personnel, shall
assist the Drug Testing Laboratory in the conduct of the drug
testing.
j. The Drug Testing Coordinator shall ensure the
confidentiality and integrity of the random drug testing for
the students, teachers, administration and personnel of the
school. It is strongly recommended that the drug testing
of the students, teachers, administration and personnel be
done simultaneously.
4. 	Treatment of Random Drug Test Results

-- 314 of 339 --

315
APPENDIX P
IMPLEMENTING GUIDELINES FOR DISCIPLINE-RELATED
POLICIES
ID-related Policies”
Students who lost their ID should present an affidavit of loss and request
a new ID at the Office of the University Registrar (OUR). A new ID will
be issued in three (3) working days. All incidents of lost or left ID and/
or failure to surrender the campus pass within the day will be reported
by the Security Office (SO) to the Student Discipline Formation Office
(SDFO).
Students who fail to bring their ID must proceed to any campus gate
with ID Terminals. After verification of the student’s identity and status,
they will be allowed to enter the campus with a one-day campus pass.
The campus pass shall be returned at the end of the day. Failure to
surrender the campus pass within the day shall incur a fine of P50.00 for
each day that it is not returned. Both the ID and the campus pass shall be
immediately regulated. The fines shall be utilized to support the Student
Government Assistance Fund (SGAF).
Students are responsible for monitoring the number of their ID violations.
For every 5th entry into the campus without an ID, the student must
immediately report to the SDFO.
In DLSU (Manila, Laguna, Makati, and Taguig (BGC) campuses), the ID is
part of the school attire and should be visibly worn inside the campus at
all times.
SDFO Clear-up Drive
In accordance with the provision of the Student Handbook. Section 1.19
of the General Directives declares that:
“The University acknowledges the right of the students to equal access
to available campus space. Benches and tables on campus meant for
students shall be accessible to all who wish to use them on a principle
of right by physical presence. It is understood that students will
occupy only the space they need. No permanent “reservation right” is
acknowledged by the University.”
The Student Discipline Formation Office (SDFO), in coordination
with the Building and Grounds Maintenance Office (BGMO) and the
Security Office (SO), strictly implements said University directive to
discourage students from leaving their belongings everywhere for

-- 315 of 339 --

316
their convenience. Based on experience, said habit on the part of our
students is not only repugnant to the diligent efforts of the BGMO, but
also a strong hindrance for the University to address the problem of
losses on campus, mostly committed by students who are behaviorally
challenged.
For said reason, the SDFO, in coordination with the BGMO and the SO, is
conducting a Clear-up Drive at random, several times a month where the
belongings of students left unattended in study areas and other areas
within the university are being brought to the SDFO Lost and Found and
Clearance Section (LFCS) for safekeeping and inventory, subject to the
provisions of the Student Handbook.
Owners of belongings gathered during the SDFO Clear-Up Drive may
claim the same from the SDFO LFCS only during office hours. The office
hours of the SDFO LFCS are posted outside the said office.
Cleanliness Campaign
Pursuant to the Cleanliness Campaign of the University, the following are
considered OFFENSES under section 5.3 of the DLSU Student Handbook:
5.3.2.3 Disobeying school regulations and other rules approved by
University authorities provided they are properly disseminated to
students through official student publications with monthly circulation,
through official DLSU website announcements, or both.
5.3.2.7 Littering.
5.3.2.14 Second and succeeding violations of the eating policy wherein
eating and drinking other than water in areas designated as a non-eating
places such as auditoriums, seminar rooms, classrooms (except light
snacks such as biscuits and candies), laboratories, libraries, chapels, and
study areas inside the buildings (except SJ study area and Gokongwei
lobby).
5.3.2.18 Unhygienic and improper use of University facilities.
5.3.1.2 Vandalism or the deliberate destruction of property belonging
to the University or to a member of the faculty, administrator, or co-
academic personnel, another student, or to a visitor while on campus.
5.3.1.29 Such other acts as may be determined by University
authorities upon consultation with student representatives, provided
the application is prospective and properly disseminated to students
through official student media, through official DLSU website
announcements, or both.

-- 316 of 339 --

317
Public Display of Physical Intimacy
Section 4.8 Social norms of the Student Handbook provides that,
The University encourages healthy interaction among students. Students
are enjoined to be mindful of others in their surroundings when on
campus. They are encouraged to practice utmost self-discipline in order
to keep their focus on their learning. Acts or gestures that tend to cause
distraction from learning in the classroom or anywhere on campus
will be referred to the SDFO for dialogue and formation. Students are
reminded to refrain from acts of lewdness that are prohibited in Section
5.3.1.11. In line with this, they should comply with the implementing
guidelines set by the University Student Government (USG), Graduate
Student Council (GSC), and the SDFO.
Acts of Lewdness
Pursuant to the Student Handbook, the following are considered major
offenses:
5.3.1.11 Acts of lewdness or commission of any act of immorality such
as but not limited to the following: being inside the cubicle of a comfort
room with another person regardless of gender and sex; necking or
petting; viewing, reading, displaying, or distributing pornographic
materials inside the University (unless with SDFO permit and endorsed
by the faculty concerned as part of a course requirement), including
accessing internet sites that do not correlate to any specific subject or
course within the University.
Cyber-Related Offenses
5.3.1.37 Commission of any cybercrime offense as defined under
Republic Act 10175 or the Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012, such as:
5.3.1.37.1 Offenses against the confidentiality, integrity, and availability
of computer data and systems (e.g., illegal access, data or system
interference, misuse of devices, cybersquatting)
5.3.1.37.2 Computer-related offenses (e.g., forgery, computer fraud,
identity theft)
5.3.1.37.3 Content-related offenses: (e.g., cybersex, child pornography,
unsolicited commercial communications
5.3.1.37.4 Cyber Libel. (Article 355 of the Revised Penal Code by means of
computer system)
5.3.1.37.5 Other offenses (e.g., aiding or abetting cybercrimes)

-- 317 of 339 --

318
5.4.3 For offenses whose reach is increased because of online visibility,
then the Board may impose a higher penalty.
Restricted Areas
Section 4.7 Social norms of the Student Handbook provides that,
Specific rules and markings are posted in classrooms, university
libraries, canteens, restrooms, and other facilities under the University’s
jurisdiction and should be strictly observed. Further, the areas identified
as restricted and identified for specific groups (such as restrooms and
faculty areas) must be respected and followed
The Student Handbook Sec 5.3.2.21 considers as a minor offense the act
of:
“Entering any restricted area within the University without prior
permission or authority. A restricted area is one that is designated as
such by the proper authorities and marked with proper signage.”
For this purpose, “restricted areas” are those that are specifically marked
with restricted signs and similar notices by respective unit heads of the
University.
University Jurisdiction
Section 5.5.2 Student Discipline Formation of the Student Handbook
provides that the term:
“University premises’ refers to the territorial boundaries of De La Salle
University-Manila, Laguna, and Taguig (BGC) Campuses, including the
academic and non-academic buildings and campuses, the parking lots
adjacent to it as well as immediate sidewalks within a periphery of five
(5) meters from gates, fences or dividing walls of buildings and within a
periphery of two hundred (200) meters. The coverage of the 200-meter
peripheral University jurisdiction are:
(For reference, you may find the actual map in Appendix E):
• 	From Sports Complex to DLSU System Parking Area (Fidel Reyes St.)
• 	From DLSU Facade to 944 Maligaya St. (after Dagonoy) marked by a
post
• 	From South Gate to the street across Starbucks (up to the power
source of LRT)
• 	From Biological Garden to front of SMDC Condominium (formerly
Harrison Plaza)
• 	In the DLSU-Laguna Campus, this covers the University Drive and
adjacent open spaces surrounding the campus.
• 	In the Taguig (BGC) Campus, this covers the University Drive and
adjacent open spaces surrounding the campus.

-- 318 of 339 --

319
The following offenses are considered within the territorial boundaries
of the University:
5.5.2.1 Brawls, as defined in Section 5.3.1.5;
5.5.2.2 Inflicting physical injuries on another, as defined in
Section 5.3.1.6;
5.5.2.3 Unauthorized bringing in, carrying, possession, or use of
drugs or chemicals as defined in Section 5.3.1.7;
5.5.2.4 Vandalism or destruction of property belonging to
another, as defined in Section 5.3.1.2;
5.5.2.5 Direct assault as defined in Section 5.3.1.6;
5.5.2.6 Threatening another as defined in Section 5.3.1.10;
5.5.2.7 Unjust enrichment as defined in Section 5.3.1.13;
5.5.2.8 Making sexual advances as defined in Section 5.3.1.26;
5.5.2.9 Gambling as defined in Section 5.3.1.16;
5.5.2.10 Drinking of liquor or alcoholic beverages in public
establishments;
5.5.2.11 Rape, any form of sexual assault, or abuse (as defined
in the Republic Act 8353 or the Anti-Rape Law of 1997 and the
Republic Act 9262 or the Anti-Violence Against Women and
Children as defined in Section 5.3.1.33;
5.5.2.12 Act that causes emotional and psychological distress
such as but not limited to annoyance or mischief (Unjust
vexation as defined in Article 287 of Revised Penal Code) as
defined in Section 5.3.1.34;
5.5.2.13 Any act of facilitating, recruiting, or soliciting support for
an unrecognized organization that subscribes or participates in
any illegal act or that violates any University policy.

-- 319 of 339 --

320
Formal Hearing Before the Board

-- 320 of 339 --

321
Handling Discipline Cases with Mental Health Concerns

-- 321 of 339 --

322
APPENDIX Q
THEATER DECORUM DURING PERFORMANCES AND
FORMAL CONFERENCES
Lasallians are expected to keep in mind common courtesy for the
speakers and performers, as well as for fellow audience members during
performances and formal conferences. Below are a few reminders to
observe during such events inside and outside the university:
1. The audience is expected to dress appropriately in professional
or dignified attire. The dress code may be specified in any given
performance however it should comply with the University Attire
Policy.
2. Children below four (4) years old are welcome only at
predetermined events unless explicitly waived by the organizers.
The management may ask patrons with children to leave the
theater in the event of disturbances.
3. The audience is advised to arrive thirty (30) minutes before
curtain time. Latecomers will be admitted by the ushers at
appropriate breaks only, depending on the type and nature of
the event. For paid performances, no refunds will be made for
patrons arriving late.
4. No smoking, eating, or drinking in the auditorium.
5. Flowers should be left with the ushers in the theatre lobby.
6. The use of cellular phone units, radio transceivers, electronic
tablets, laptops, small audio players, laser pointers, and similar
gadgets are not allowed in the theater.
7. The audience should keep their feet on the floor, not on the
seat or balcony in front of him/her.
8. The audience is expected to behave properly by not making
unnecessary sounds during the performance (i.e. talking,
whispering, loud coughing, or clearing of the throat).
9. If an audience member must leave during a performance or
a speech, she/he is requested to wait until applause between
pieces or a substantial “break” in the performance or speech.
10. Taking photographs or video/audio recordings during the
performance is strictly prohibited unless authorized by the
organizers.

-- 322 of 339 --

323
11. Performers and speakers appreciate enthusiastic applause,
but not whistling or shouting unless it is “Brava” or “Bravo”.
12. Rock concerts or street dance concerts prompt whistling and
shouting, but not for formal concerts and conferences.
13. Unauthorized persons are forbidden from going into the
dressing rooms, technical booth or orchestra pit before, during,
and after performances.
14. Admission into the auditorium is only up to seating capacity.
Standing Room Only admission is strictly not allowed.
15. The audience is requested to leave only after the curtain call
or formal closing of a conference.
16. The organizers reserve the right to refuse admission or ask an
audience member to leave the theater for the cause.

-- 323 of 339 --

324
APPENDIX R
MEMORANDUM ON DROPPING OF MODULAR
ACCOUNTANCY COURSES
21 June 2007
MEMORANDUM:
TO 	: 	Dr. Myrna S.Austria,
Dean, College of Business and Economics
Atty. Christopher E. Cruz,
Vice Dean, College of Business and Economics
Dr. Corazon C. Subido,
Chair, Accountancy Department
Mr. Edwin P. Santiago,
University Registrar
FROM 	: 	Dr. Julius B. Maridable
Vice Chancellor for Academics
SUBJECT: 	DROPPING OF MODULAR ACCOUNTANCY COURSES
The Student Handbook provides that undergraduate students may drop
courses up to the fourth week of the term. However, given that the schedules
of the start and end of Accountancy modular courses do not conform to the
University’s regular schedules, the following guidelines are exclusively adopted
in connection with these courses:
1. 	Students may drop modular Accountancy courses up to
Day 3 only of the modular class. This deadline for dropping
applies to all modular classes, including those which start
and end within the university dropping period. An officially-
dropped course will not appear in the records of the student
for the term during which it was dropped.
2. 	Refunds for dropped course(s) will follow the CHED-
approved policies governing refunds. Thus, for purposes
of modular accountancy courses, refunds shall only be
available if the course is dropped within the first two (2)
weeks of the term.

-- 324 of 339 --

325
3. 	Therefore, a student dropping a modular course after this
period shall not be entitled to any refund. The applicable
percentages for refund adopted by the university shall
remain.
4. 	To drop a modular course, the student informs the Chair
of the Accountancy Department in writing. Thereafter, not
later than Day 4 of the modular class schedule, the Chair
of the Accountancy Department informs the Office of
the University Registrar (OUR) through a memorandum
endorsed by the Vice Dean.The memorandum shall contain
the list of students, their ID numbers and the specific
courses to be dropped. The original Enrollment Assessment
Form / Student Enrollment Record of the concerned
students must be attached.
5. 	The dropping of courses shall be considered final and official
only upon confirmation by the OUR. A revised Enrollment
Assessment Form / Student Enrollment Record shall be
transmitted to the department not later than Day 5 of the
modular class schedule.
6. 	Other courses required and taken by the Accountancy
students which are not modular in character and
classification are not covered by these guidelines. As such,
the usual policies and procedures governing dropping of
other courses shall be applicable to them.
7. 	These guidelines shall take effect starting SY2007-08,
Term 2.

-- 325 of 339 --

326
APPENDIX S
STUDENT MEDIA
Student media at De La Salle University aims to inform and eventually
engage the students and other sectors of the University to a meaningful
discourse and action. Involvement in student media provides students with
practical experiences that will enable them to become campus journalists
who keep Lasallian core values in mind and take craft proficiency to heart.
Aligned with the tenets of responsible journalism, student media allows
students to enhance both their personal and intellectual development.
1.1 	Definition of Terms
1.1.1 	“Student Media” shall refer to any form of media (i.e.
printed and electronic online) produced by students
for publication, TV and radio broadcast, distribution,
dissemination or otherwise communication on or from the
campus of the University.
1.1.2 	“Student Publications”, based on the Campus Journalism
Act of 1991 (Republic Act 7079), shall refer to any printed
material that is independently published by, and which
meets the needs and interests of, the students. This
includes newspapers, magazines, newsletters, periodicals,
handouts, or other publications whether printed,
mimeographed, or photocopied, published by students for
campus circulation.
1.1.3 	“Student Media Group” shall refer to any recognized
editorial board (including its staff members) of any
association involved in student media. It may be a group in
itself (i.e. a major student media group) or may be part of a
sponsoring student organization
1.1.4 	or government (i.e. a minor student media group). Duly
supervised by the Student Media Office (SMO), only such
groups shall be allowed to produce any form of student
media on or from the campus of the University.
1.1.5 	“Minor Student Media Group” shall refer to any group
involved in student media circulated organization-
wide. This kind of group usually belongs to any student
organization or student government recognized by
the Student Leadership Involvement, Formation and
Empowerment (Student LIFE) or other colleges, offices
and units within the University. SMO assists these groups

-- 326 of 339 --

327
by providing technical assistance (i.e. layout and graphic
design assessment, and workshops for writing, editing, and
proofreading).
1.2 	22.2 Accreditation of a Major Student Media Group
1.2.1 	The following requirements should be submitted by a
student media group-applicant to the Student Media
Office by the first week of Term 1 prior to the opening of
classes to obtain official recognition:
1.2.2 	Certificate of recognition from the college, office or unit it
is affiliated;
1.2.3 	A proposal that outlines the following:
1.2.3.1 	Purpose and nature of the student media group;
1.2.3.2 	Proposed contents of the communication
material/s;
1.2.3.3 	Proposed platforms to be used;
1.2.3.4 	Number of copies to be printed and circulated;
and frequency of broadcast or content release;
1.2.3.5 	List of editorial or executive board members
(including their CGPA and Certificate of Good
Moral Conduct from the Student Discipline
Formation Office);
1.2.3.6 	Student Media Group activity calendar; and
Budget plan.
1.3 	Accreditation of a Minor Student Media Publication
The following requirements should be submitted by a minor student
media publication-applicant to the Student Media Office by the first
week of Term 1 or prior to the opening of classes to obtain official
recognition:
1.3.1 	Certificate of recognition from the college, office or unit it
is affiliated;
1.3.2 	A proposal that outlines the following:
1.3.2.1 	Purpose and nature of the student media
publication;
1.3.2.2 	roposed contents of the communication

-- 327 of 339 --

328
material/s;
1.3.2.3 	Proposed platforms to be used; and
1.4 	Circulation Calendar
Funding of a Student Media Group Any student media group
may use the existing funds of an organization for the printing,
publication, broadcast, distribution or dissemination of any
communication material.
1.5 	Circulation of Unrecognized Groups or Individuals
Circulation of publications (and broadcast groups) by unrecognized
organizations, groups or individuals must have the prior approval
of the Dean of Student Affairs, upon the recommendation of the
Director of Student Media.
1.6 	Distribution of Communication Materials
Circulation of publications (and broadcast groups) by unrecognized
organizations, groups or individuals must have the prior approval
of the Dean of Student Affairs, upon the recommendation of the
Director of Student Media.
1.7 	Dealing with Suppliers
All Student Media groups shall comply with the procurement and
accounting policies of the University. The provisions to this will have
to be considered by the University.
1.8 	Application for an Editorial or Executive Board Position
1.8.1 	Major student media groups shall conduct competitive
examinations in accordance with the guidelines stated
on the Campus Journalism Act of 1991, the DLSU Student
Handbook, the student media groups by laws, and
supervised by their respective outgoing or executive
editorial board members.
1.8.2 	Application for an Editorial or Executive Board Position in
a Major Student Media Group Applicants for the available
posts of the editorial or executive board of any major
student media group should:
1.8.2.1 	Have at least one-year residence in the major
student media group prior to their assumption
of office;

-- 328 of 339 --

329
1.8.2.2 	Be in good academic standing with a CGPA
of at least 2.000 throughout their stay in the
University (by assumption of office);
1.8.2.3 	Obtain clearance from the Student Discipline
Formation Office certifying that they have not
incurred a major offense or have pending major
disciplinary case throughout their stay in the
University.
1.8.2.4 	Should have one full academic year remaining
in which they are in office. Graduating students
may enroll in fewer than 12 units.
1.8.2.5 	Should not hold office in any executive capacity
in any other official or minor student media
group or any recognized student organization
while they are still members of the editorial or
executive board of any major student media
group.
1.8.2.5.1 	Any editorial board member of any
major student media group who
intends to run for a position in the
University Student Government or
the Council of Student Organizations
for the following academic year
should assist the Coordinator for
Training and Operations in preparing
and implementing media and
journalism workshops.
1.8.3 	Application for an Editorial or Executive Board Position in
a Minor Student Media Group Minor student media groups
may select their editorial or executive boards through
elections or appointments according to their preference.
1.9 	Student Media Council
The Student Media Council envisions itself as an empowered body
composed of student leaders, visible through concrete action, duly
recognized by the Lasallian community. It aims to be the benchmark
of student publication and media management among universities
and colleges in the Philippines.
1.9.1 	The Student Media Council (SMC) shall be composed of
the top editorial/executive board members of each major

-- 329 of 339 --

330
student media group. The Director of Student Media shall
supervise its operations.
1.9.2 	The Council members shall select among themselves the
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, Public Relations Officer,
Secretary, Treasurer, and Events Manager from among the
top editorial/executive present in accordance with the
guidelines specified by the Student Media Council (SMC).
1.9.3 	The Student Media Council shall have the following
responsibilities:
1.9.3.1 	Ensure that all guidelines for student media
groups are implemented;
1.9.3.2 	Recommend to the Student Affairs Council
revisions to rules and regulations covering
student media and other relevant topics on the
Student Handbook;
1.9.3.3 	Assess the performance of various student
media groups and provide recommendations
for their improvement; Assist the Coordinator
for Training and Operations in preparing and
implementing media and journalism workshops
and other related; Determine the criteria for the
selection of the editorial or executive staff of
the major student media groups; projects;
1.9.3.4 	Meet at least once a month (more often when
necessary); and
1.9.3.5 	Receive, investigate, and decide, together with
the Director of Student Media, complaints from
any aggrieved member of the community. If
contested, the Student Media Council shall
review the decision.
1.9.3.5.1 	Complaint letters from any member
of the academic community should
be addressed to the Chairperson of
the Student Media Council.
1.10 	Editorial or Executive Screening Board
1.10.1 	The Editorial or Executive Screening Board shall be
composed of the following:

-- 330 of 339 --

331
1.10.1.1 	Director of Student Media;
1.10.1.2 	Coordinator of Student Media;
1.10.1.3 	Incumbent top officers; and
1.10.1.4 	The faculty adviser.
1.10.2 	If any of the outgoing top editors will run for a position
for the next academic year, the other outgoing editors or
officers may assign a representative, preferably a former
top editor or officer, as a replacement.
1.10.3 	The Editorial or Executive Screening Board shall have the
following responsibilities:
1.10.3.1 	Determine the criteria for the selection of the
editorial or Executive staff of the major student
media groups;
1.10.3.2 	Prescribe the manner and procedure for the
implementation of the editorial examinations;
1.10.3.3 	Prescribe the criteria and manner in the
selection of the Editorial or Executive Examiners
Board by the Director of Student Media; and
1.10.3.4 	Appoint students who will assist in the conduct
of the editorial examinations.
1.11 	Editorial or Executive Examiners Board
1.11.1 	The Editorial or Executive Examiners Board shall be
composed of the following:
1.11.1.1 	Incumbent editors or officers of the student
media group concerned who are not running for
any position in the following academic year; and
1.11.1.2 	Corresponding number of practitioners in
journalism, creative writing, broadcasting, and
related fields duly appointed by the current
editorial or executive board.
1.11.2 	The board shall have the following responsibilities:
1.11.2.1 	Evaluate and select the incoming editorial or
executive staff based on clearly established
criteria and properly promulgated procedures.

-- 331 of 339 --

332
1.11.2.2 	Formulate questions for the written and/or oral
examinations; and
1.11.2.3 	Check examination papers and present the
results of the examinations to the Editorial or
Executive Screening Board.
1.12 	Selection of Staff Members
1.12.1 	Staff members shall be selected by the editorial or
executive board based on proficiency and competence
through competitive examinations and interviews to
be conducted by the editorial or executive board of the
student media group, headed by the Associate Editor or
Vice President for Internals.
1.12.2 	Applicants should meet the following requirements:
1.12.2.1 	Obtain clearance from the Student Discipline
Formation Office certifying that they have not
incurred a major offense or have pending major
disciplinary case throughout their stay in the
University; and
1.12.2.2 	Not be an officer or member of any political
party (with an exemption for Green & White and
Malate Literary Folio staff members).
1.12.3 	Staff members should maintain their status as bonafide
students of the University to retain their membership in
the student media group.
1.12.4 	Staff members shall be classified as either regular or
probationary based on the length of time of active
membership set by each editorial or executive board.
1.13 	Allocation of Duties and Responsibilities
1.13.1 	Schedule of Circulation, Broadcast or Release Major
student media groups shall publish and circulate their
communication materials for the University following this
schedule:
1.13.1.1 	The LaSallian: every first week of the month
within each term;
1.13.1.2 	Ang Pahayagang Plaridel: every third week of the
month within each term;

-- 332 of 339 --

333
1.13.1.3 	The Malate Literary Folio: one week* before the
end of each term; and
1.13.1.4 	Green & White: annually and released by the
third month after the last commencement
exercise of the academic year.
1.13.1.5 	Green Giant FM schedule of broadcast is
determined by the Executive Board and
approved by SMO Director.
1.13.1.6 	Archers Network releases one (1) video per
month and bi-monthly broadcasts.
1.13.1.7 	Releases of special issues are not covered in the
said schedule
1.13.2 	All monetary disbursements should be approved by the
Managing Editor, Vice President for Externals, or Station
Manager of any major student media group. Only the
signature of the Editor in Chief or President, duly noted by
the Director of Student Media, will validate the requisition.
In the absence of the editor in chief or president, the
signature of the second in line, usually the Associate
Editor or Vice President for Internals, with a reasonable
explanation for the proxy, shall suffice.
1.13.3 	The Managing Editor, Vice President for Externals, or Station
Manager should support all payment requisitions with
official receipts to be submitted to the Director of Student
Media.
1.13.4 	All office supply purchases should be recorded and
accounted for by the Managing Editor, Vice President for
Externals, Station Manager, or the office manager.
1.13.5 	Editorial or Executive board members and their staff are
the only ones who may use the facilities belonging to the
major student media groups. Equipment and supplies may
not be taken out of their respective offices, except during
out-of-campus presswork.
1.13.6 	The Editorial or Executive Board and the office manager will
determine office rules and policies by the major student
media groups. It is the responsibility of each major student
media group to ensure that its staffers know the existence
of such rules.

-- 333 of 339 --

334
1.14 	Student Media Grievance Committee
1.14.1 	The Student Media Grievance Committee shall have the
appellate jurisdiction over the decision of the Student
Media Council and the Director of Student Media.
1.14.2 	The Student Media Grievance Committee shall be
composed of the following:
1. The Dean of Student Affairs as the Chair;
2. An administration representative;
3. A faculty representative; and
4. A student representative.
1.14.3 	The Dean of Student Affairs shall convene the Committee
and define the procedures to be followed in the conduct of
the review
1.14.4 	The proceedings before the Student Media Grievance
Committee shall be without prejudice to the filing of any
criminal case under the Revised Penal Code and other
existing laws.
1.15 	Policy on Professional Journalism
1.15.1 	Student media groups shall enjoy the right to freely and
responsibly publish articles, opinions, and other works,
guided by the Campus Journalism Act of 1992 (RA 7079)
and the University Mission Statement, without any undue
influence or threat.
1.15.2 	Student media groups shall be subject to all the provisions
of the law pertaining to mass media. The student media
groups shall be fully and solely responsible for materials
they publish.
1.15.3 	Complaints against any member of the academic
community may be published following the existing
student media group policies. For cases with ongoing
investigations, only the facts and not the merits of the
case may be published. Published articles must be well
researched and balanced.
1.15.4 	All stories, editorial, photographs, illustrations, video and
audio published in communication materials should carry
bylines, credit lines, or taglines. The editorial or executive

-- 334 of 339 --

335
board of the student media group shall be held fully and
solely responsible for materials appearing without credit.
1.15.5 	Staff members must use an audio recorder during
interviews. Interviewees have the right to keep their
statement from being audibly recorded. Interviewees
may also request for a copy of the transcript and approve
it to ensure that the statements are accurate. The staff
member must comply if the interviewee requested some
facts to remain off the record.
1.15.6 	All stories, editorials, photographs, illustrations, video
and audio scheduled for distribution through any
communication material produced by any major student
media group may not be shown to anyone besides its staff
members.
1.15.6.1 	Any leakage prior to the communications
material’s release must be reported to the
Director of the Student Media for investigation.

-- 335 of 339 --

336
APPENDIX T
LIST OF RELEVANT REPUBLIC ACTS AND
GOVERNMENT-MANDATED POLICIES
1. Republic Act No. 11036 - Mental Health Act
2. Republic Act No. 7877 - Anti Sexual Harassment Act
3. Republic Act No. 111313 - Safe Spaces Act
4. Republic Act No. 10627 - Anti-Bullying Act
5. Republic Act No. 11053 - Anti Hazing Act of 2018
6. Republic Act No. 8049 - An Act Regulating Hazing and Other Forms of
Initiation Rites
7. Republic Act No. 7079 - Campus Journalism Act
8. Republic Act No. 10173 - Data Privacy Act
9. Republic Act No. 10175 - Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012
10. CHED Memorandum Order No. 64 Policies, Guidelines and Procedures
for Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) Requiring Drug Testing of
Students
11. CHED Memorandum Order No. 18 Implementing Guidelines for the
Conduct of Drug Testing of Students in All Higher Education Institutions
12. Dangerous Drugs Board Regulation No. 6 General Guidelines for the
Conduct of Random Drug Testing for Secondary and Tertiary Students

-- 336 of 339 --

337
STUDENT HANDBOOK REVISION COMMITTEE
2021-2025
Chair:
Dr. Christine Joy Ballada
Dean of Student Affairs
University Student Government:
Mr. Lance Isiah Dela Cruz
Ms. Maegan Angela Ragudo
Ms. Ma. Giorgina Escoto
Ms. Britney May Paderes
Council of Student Organizations:
Ms. Angel Smayl Sesante
Mr. Juan Lorenzo Mercado
Graduate Student Council:
Ms. Jerilou Marie Buted
Mr. Joshua Miguel Sanchez
Faculty:
Dr. Antonio Contreras
Dr. Shirley Dita
Dr. Benito Teehankee
Administration:
Dr. Jonathan Dungca
Dr. Marites Tiongco
Dr. Rafael Cabredo
Dr. Emelina Sarreal
Dr. Ron Resurreccion
Dr. Christopher Que
Consultants / Resource Persons:
Atty. Christopher Cruz
University Legal Counsel
Atty. Mike Gerald David
Associate University Legal Counsel
Dr. Nelson Marcos
University Registrar
Mr. Michael Millanes
Director, Student Discipline Formation Office
Mr. Christopher Villanueva
Director, Office of Student LIFE
Dr. Leandro Loyola
Director, College Student Affairs - Laguna

-- 337 of 339 --

338
Ms. Nelca Leila Villarin
Vice-Dean for Student Affairs, School of Innovation and Sustainability
Mr. Johnny Perez
President, DLSU Employees’ Association
Dr. Leni Garcia
Faculty Consultant, College of Liberal Arts
Dr. Laarni Roque
Director, Health Services Office
Dr. Estesa Xaris Legaspi
Director, Lasallian Center for Inclusion, Diversity, and Well-being
Dr. Felicitas Ducusin
President, DLSU Parents of University Students Organization
Ms. Maria Lourdes Fajardo
President, DLSU Parents of University Students Organization
Secretariat:
Ms. Franz Louise Santos
Student Media Office
Ms. Diane Genevive Layag
Student Discipline Formation Office
Ms. Maria Cecilia Renee Moreno,
Office of Student Affairs
Ms. Annika Nicole Silangcruz
University Student Government
Ms. Jewel May Carmella Limjoco
University Student Government
Ms. Jasmine Paras
University Student Government
Layout Artists:
Ms. Chana Marie Garcia
Mr. Miguel Inigo Pabello

-- 338 of 339 --

339

-- 339 of 339 --

